Hello and welcome to Chem 233. This recorded webcast is the first recorded webcast for the course. This webcast will provide an overview of the course. First, my name is Dr. Shawn Miller and I will be your instructor for Chem 233. Before we begin, I would like to remind you that this recorded webcast is merely a summary of course structure and policy as outlined in the course syllabus. You are expected to read the course syllabus in its entirety and be familiar with its contents. This webcast is not a substitute for reading the course syllabus. For course announcements, please regularly check the Compass 2g course website and Piazza. We will talk about what Piazza is in a little bit. I do not send mass emails on a regular basis. I prefer announcements because they are a permanent location where you can always view the information I would like you to see. Please make sure you read the syllabus and check announcements on a regular basis. If you miss something important and it is located in either of those two locations, that is unfortunate. It is your responsibility to ensure that you are up to date on course information via announcements and the course syllabus. I suggest that you check for new announcements every day. If there is an emergency and I need you to know something immediately, I will send an email then. Chem 233 has two main components. The first component consists of webcasts, like the one you are watching now, and the lecture periods. This component of the course is focused on theory and problem solving. Via the webcasts and lecture we will discuss experiment background information, tips for performing an experiment, and work through practice problems. The second component of this course is the laboratory component. The laboratory component is focused on practical application of what you have learned and critical thinking. In this component of the course, you will perform experiments, collect data, and then draw conclusions and support those conclusions using the data that you have collected. After you finish this course, what should you have gotten out of this? Well, by the end of this course you will be able to explain the theory behind standard organic chemistry techniques and instruments. You will be able to solve problems utilizing fundamental organic chemistry laboratory concepts. You will be able to predict the outcome of an experiment using knowledge of the theory behind an experiment. You will be able to execute basic organic chemistry laboratory procedures efficiently and safely. You will be able to record relevant scientific data and observations and finally, you will be able to draw conclusions supported by provided spectroscopic data or your own recorded laboratory data. Thats a lot of goals. How will you practice achieving these goals? You will practice achieving these goals by first, watching the recorded webcasts and actively participating in the discussion formatted lectures. Let's talk about these webcasts and these lectures. Every experiment will have one or more webcasts associated with it. You are responsible for watching those webcasts prior to coming to that lecture period associated with that webcast. These webcasts, like the one you are watching now, are viewable on the Compass 2g website and you can view them as many times as you wish. A typical webcast will present both the theoretical background information for a topic, as well as practical and safety considerations for the associated laboratory experiment. When watching these webcasts, it is highly recommended that you take notes like you would for any other lecture. You will find these notes useful when it comes time to say prepare for a post lab quiz or for an exam. If these webcasts are the primary method for communicating information to you, what are we going to use the lecture periods for? Attendance at lecture periods is optional. What we will be doing in these lecture periods, if you decide to attend, is we are going to treat them like we would treat a discussion section where we will work through worksheets that you will find on the Compass 2g website. These worksheets will be a combination of multiple choice questions, free response questions and other practice problems and calculations. If you decide to come to lecture, please remember to bring your clickers and to print out and bring the worksheet associated with that lecture ahead of time. Prior to coming to lecture, you will also have the option of completing a survey on the Compass 2g course website. This survey is designed to solicit feedback from you on what topics you feel you are most uncomfortable with. your response will help guide me on what to focus on in the lecture periods. For the laboratory portion of this course, you will practice by preparing for lab at home via reading the lab manual, completing the pre-lab quiz for that experiment, and completing your pre-lab notebook. You will arrive on time for every lab in proper attire, and then you will preform laboratory experiments. When preparing for and performing these laboratory experiments, you will do this in the mindset of 'What am I doing and why?' instead of 'I'm just going to go and do what the procedure tells me to do'. Everything you do in an experiment has a purpose and if you can rationalize what each step is supposed to do, that means you have a solid understanding of the theory behind that experiment. How will you prepare for these labs? First, we must talk about what types of labs you will perform in this course.
The first type of lab is what we call a dry lab. As you can see in the schedule in the course syllabus the first three experiments in the course are dry labs. Dry labs are labs that will be on spectroscopy. These dry labs will not be performed in your assigned laboratory room, instead these will be done in assigned classrooms working in small groups to solve spectroscopy problems. That will be located in provided worksheets. The other type of lab is a wet lab. A wet lab is what you might think of a traditional organic chemistry lab, where you will enter a laboratory and perform some chemistry. The procedures for these experiments are located in your lab manual. Now that we know the two types of labs that you will be performing, how do you prepare for each of them? For dry lab, you will watch the webcast or webcasts associated with that experiment and take notes. For a dry lab, there is no pre-lab notebook. There is however a pre-lab quiz which you can find online on the compass2g course website. It is important that you complete the pre-lab quiz. If you do not complete the pre-lab quiz you will not be allowed to perform the experiment. As mentioned previously, these dry labs will not be performed in your normal laboratory room. Before going to your dry lab you'll need to identify the time and classroom you'll be performing the dry lab in by looking at schedule posted on the compass 2g course website. You can do this via using you lab section number and/or your TA's name. Preparing for a wet lab is similar. As with the dry labs, you will watch the associated webcast or webcasts for an experiment and take notes. You will then read the lab manual pages for the experiment while thinking about how the procedure lines up with the webcast. If you can explain how each step fits with the theory discussed in the webcast, then you have a good handle on what the experiment is trying to do. You will also watch any assigned technical videos located on compass. These technical videos will show you how to perform each technique ahead of time. For example, in the TLC experiment, there is a technical video that will show you how to set up a TLC plate. That way you will have some ideas what to do when you actually get to lab. For a wet lab, there is a pre-lab notebook and you must complete that pre-lab notebook according to the instructions in your lab manual. You must complete the pre-lab quiz associated with that experiment on compass. If you do not complete either your pre-lab notebook or your pre-lab quiz you will not be able to perform the experiment. Because this is a technical course, or a significant portion of your grade comes from performing experiments, attendance at each lab is required. Make-up labs are difficult to arrange. Do not assume you will be given the opportunity. If you know ahead of time that there will be a conflict due to religious or other accepted reasons, it may be possible to arrange for a make-up experiment if you provide enough notice, at least one week in advance. It is important to arrive to lab early. At the beginning of every lab period, your TA will give a short lecture just to go over the highlights of what the lab you will be performing is, some tips to perform it efficiently and safely, some things like that. You must be there for that lecture. If you arrive during the lecture, you will receive a 10-point deduction from your lab notebook score. If you arrive after the lecture is completed, you will be prevented from performing the experiment at all, even if you completed the pre-lab quiz and the pre-lab notebook. That's a lot of things to practice, and mostly on your own. What kind of support will you be given? The final part of practicing for any course is getting help and discussing the material with other people and you will do that with your peers, with myself and your TA, online using Piazza or in person at office hours or via email. In this course you have the option of using Piazza. You can find enrollment instructions for Piazza in the course syllabus. Piazza is a free service which you can think of as a course forum or a course wiki. How it works is you have a question and you can post a question that is viewable to everyone. It is also answerable by everyone that means that me, the TAs, and your peers can answer your question, meaning you're more likely to get a rapid response. It also means that because these questions are public, that if someone has already asked the question you were going to ask and received an answer, you can simply look at their question and their answer to solve your problem. When posting on Piazza, if you wish, you can post anonymously to your peers, but be aware that instructors including myself and TAs know who you are when you post so make sure that you are polite and follow the rules for posting on Piazza. Do not be afraid to ask questions. Now this is a two-way street. if you are asking questions you should also be trying to answer questions. Be active and help each other out. If you're a little nervous about trusting the answers from you peers, don't worry both me and the TAs will be checking every answer that gets posted and make sure the information you are receiving is good information. Let's say you really want some face-to-face time with either me or your TA. You can always go to office hours. My office hours are located on the course syllabus and your TA's office hours will be posted online within the first week of the course. If you can't come to office hours, but would still like some face-to-face time, email me or your TA and we will do our best to make ensure we can schedule a private meeting. And finally, of course there's always the old standby of email. You can always email either myself or the TA if you have a question. If there are personal concerns you need to discuss with me, use email and not Piazza. Contact me directly.
So far we have discussed what you should be getting out of the course when you're done how you will practice achieving those goals. Now we're gonna talk how you will be assessed how your grade will be assigned. You'll be assessed using a number of different tools the first of which is a 'Getting Started' Quiz. This Getting Started Quiz is designed to assess how well you understand course policy and laboratory safety. To prepare for this quiz you should be familiar with the course syllabus, the lab manual, and the introductory webcasts being this webcast, the lab safety webcast, and the fundamentals webcast. Some of the questions in this quiz will have answers that are not located in any of these sources. Part of working in the lab is having some common sense, and you should expect questions that will test your common sense. This quiz is graded at the time of submission, in other words right after you submit it so you can take it as many times as you wish to maximize your score prior to the deadline. There will also be a pre and post lab quiz for every experiment in this course. For every lab experiment there will be one short electronic prelab quiz that you will find on Compass. This prelab quiz is primarily designed to be a safety check to assure that you have a fundamental understanding of the experiment. That means knowing what the procedure is going to be and knowing the safety considerations for the experiment. If you have prepared for the experiment properly by watching the webcasts and completing the prelab notebook these quizzes should take you no longer than 5 minutes. These quizzes are very short and are designed to be easy to complete if you've done your homework. You may use your notes for these quizzes, but you must work alone. For each quiz, you will be allowed 2 attempts. The 2nd attempt is designed to accommodate any difficulties you may encounter. For example locking out accidentally or submitting early. Be aware that the final attempt will always be the attempt that is accepted. If you successfully complete the quiz once then take the quiz again but get a lower score, that's the one that's going to count. The second attempt will always be the one accepted even if that score is lower than the first one. Each lab experiment will also have one electronic post lab quiz that you will find on Compass. The post lab quiz is designed to test something different. The post lab quiz is designed to assess your knowledge and understanding of the theory and practical aspects of the experiment. You should treat these post lab quizzes as practice for the exam. This means that you should be comfortable with the materials in the webcasts, and if you have taken notes, you may use those on this quiz. As with the pre lab quizzes, you'll be allowed 2 attempts to complete this quiz again to accommodate any technical difficulties you may encounter, and once again the second attempt will always be the one that is accepted even if that second attempt score is lower than your first attempt score. As this is a lab course, you will also be assessed based on your lab experiments and your submitted lab notebooks. What you submit will depend on the type of lab. For dry labs, it's pretty simple. You will be given a packet to work on, and once you complete your packet you will submit that packet to your TA for grading before the end of the period. For wet labs, you will be submitting your lab notebook pages. This will include the prelab work that you put into your notebook as well as the notes you take during the lab and the conclusions you write after the lab. Taken as a whole, the notes in your lab notebook should be complete enough that any other student could repeat your procedure exactly as you did and get the same results. This means recording things like actual amounts of materials used, writing down any deviations from the procedure that you made, and specific data and observations that are requested. Instructions on what to record can be found in your lab manual. You will also find in your lab manual an example pre lab and post lab notebook. Look at those and use them to guide you on what you should be including and how your notebook should look like. Once you've completed an experiment, you will then take the perforated pages which for most of you will the white pages of your lab notebook and submit them to your TA. Your TA will grade these notebook pages based on completeness, the recording of relevant data in the correct format, correct calculations, and reporting your results based on that data, quality data analysis, and so on. A description of what we're looking for can be found in your lab manual. The rubric that will be used to grade your first wet experiment will be publicly posted on the Compass 2g course website. This will be the only rubric that will publicly posted. However, the format for the rubric for all subsequent wet experiments will be roughly the same. Feel free to use this rubric as a reference as you proceed through the course. Finally, there will be two exams and a laboratory practical.
Exams will be held as shown in the schedule in the course syllabus. These will be traditional exams. You should expect multiple choice questions, free response questions, and other types of questions that are specific to organic chemistry. Laboratory practicals are different. Laboratory practicals will be designed to test your practical skills, your ability to perform organic chemistry laboratory techniques. These will be held as shown in the course syllabus during your normal lab period. We have just finished discussing all the many bits and pieces that will combine to make up your grade. The Getting Started quiz, your pre-lab quizzes, your post-lab quizzes, your lab notebooks, the two exams, and your lab practical. Your letter grades for this course will be assigned as described in the course syllabus. The lowest pre-lab quiz, the lowest post-lab quiz, and the lowest experimental scores will be dropped at the end of the course. These don't all have to be from the same experiment. For this course, there will not be what you might call a curve for most components. For the experimental scores, and experimental scores only, there may be a standardization if and only if there's a significant difference in grading between TAs. So far in this webcast we have discussed many different aspects to this course: webcasts, lectures periods, lab periods, quizzes, notebooks. How does it all fit together? Here is a diagram which hopefully will help you see how everything in this course fits together. For the lecture portion of this course, you will watch webcasts and read the lab manual. Having done that, you will have the option of attending lecture sessions where we will work through problems. For the last portion of this course, you will watch webcast and read the manual, and then having done that you will complete your pre-lab quiz and your pre-lab notebook, which will allow you to perform the associated experiment. Once the experiment is done, you then need to complete a post-lab quiz. The material in your post-lab quiz will be a combination of material from the webcast and material from the experiment itself. Notice how in this diagram the arrow leading from the lecture portion of the course is larger than the arrow leading from the experimental portion of the course. That is by design. The post-lab quizzes will be comprised primarily of material from webcast because your post-lab quiz is designed to test your understanding of the theory and fundamentals behind each experiment. The optional lecture sessions will solve problems that will help you prepare for these post-lab quizzes in the same way the optional lecture sessions prepare you for the post-lab quizzes, the post-lab quizzes are designed to prepare you for the exams. One feeds into the other. The lab portion of the course is similar: complete the pre-lab quiz and pre-lab notebook to prepare you for performing the experiment, which in turn will prepare you for performing the lab practical. Congratulations, you've made it to the end of the first webcast for this course. However, there are a few other webcasts that you need to watch. Remember to watch the 'Intro to Spectroscopy' webcast before coming to the first lecture session. You should also watch the fundamentals webcast if you are concurrently taking CHEM 232 or need a refresher on organic chemistry fundamentals. You also have a lab safety webcast to watch. You should watch that before the due date for the Getting Started quiz. You will find some of the material in the webcast in the Getting Started quiz.
Hello there, this introductory webcast will be about laboratory safety. This recorded webcast will summarize laboratory safety details that you will find in the course syllabus and in your lab manual. you are expected to read the course syllabus and the laboratory manual and be familiar with everything in them. this webcast is not a substitute for reading the course syllabus or the lab manual. One of the biggest parts of lab safety is being prepared for lab before you make it to lab. Knowing what you will be doing is the first step for performing an experiment safely. If you walk into lab with no idea as to what you will be doing, that makes you a danger not only to yourself but to your partner and to everyone around you. This is why before coming to lab, you must complete your pre-lab notebook and your pre-lab quiz. If you fail to complete either of those things, you will not be allowed to perform the experiment. When you come to lab, you should bring a certain set of materials. This includes your lab notebook, your safety goggles, your lab coat, a calculator, and a pen using blue or black ink. Anything else, including copies of the lab manual and your cell phones should be stored outside of the lab in the provided lockers. There is just not enough space in the labs themselves to hold all of the materials you normally bring to a course. Once you are in the lab, you must remember this rule: you must listen to your TA. They are there foremost for your safety. One of the things your TA's will be doing is ensuring you are wearing proper attire. TA's can and will ask you to leave if you have not worn the proper clothing and/or brought the proper safety equipment. This is more than simply having it with you, you must also wear the material correctly. For example, goggles must be worn over your eyes at all times. They do not do you any good if they are resting on your forehead. Similarly, lab coats must be on and buttoned at all times. Your feet and legs must be completely covered. That means full sized pants or skirts and shoes that cover the entirety of your feet. If you have long hair, it should be tied back, so as to avoid being dipped in or tipping over materials in the lab. Similarly, you should have no dangly clothing. Scarves, oversized lab coats, neckties, bulky sleeves, things like that. These types of things tend to knock a lot of equipment over, potentially causing a safety hazard. Lets talk about goggles first: here are a number of different types of safety goggles. Not all of these goggles are acceptable for you to wear in the laboratory. For example, if you look in the upper left hand corner, we have what are more correctly called safety glasses. These glasses are designed to protect your eyes from impact. They will not protect your eyes from spills and so safety glasses are not acceptable attire. Similarly, in the bottom left corner, we have a set of typical eyeglass with what we call sideshields. Again, these are designed to protect your eyes from impact, but not from spills, so these are also unacceptable. You must wear lab goggles of the type that you see in the upper right and the bottom right. These lab goggles create a seal around your eyes so that even if you spill something on your face, the liquid cannot drip down into your eyes. As mentioned, these must be worn properly at all times. Your TA can and will deduct points from your lab score for continuous improper use of your goggles. The proper type of lab coat must also be worn. Lets look at the lab coat on the left: it's buttoned up correctly, but what's wrong with it? The problem with this lab coat is it is too short. your lab coat must reach down to about your knees. That provides the maximum amount of protection for most of your body. Knowing that, you can probably tell what's wrong with the lab coat in the middle. The lab coat in the middle has short sleeves. Your lab coat must have full sleeves. Having full sleeves provides the maximum amount of protection for your body. The lab coat you should be wearing should look like the one on the right. This lab coat has full sized sleeves, it reaches all the way down to almost the knees, and fits properly. Do not wear a lab coat that is too small or too large. As with lab goggles, TA's can and will deduct points from your experiment score for improper use of lab coats. Your lab goggles and lab coats are only one layer of safety. The clothing you wear underneath them is just as important. As mentioned previously, a proper lab coat provides maximum protection for your body. The clothing you wear underneath must also provide the maximum amount of protection for your body as possible. So for example, things like shorts, and capris are unacceptable. They do not provide enough coverage for the lower portion of your body. Similarly, sandals and slippers are also unacceptable. They leave exposed skin and thus do not provide enough protection for your body. This list here is not an exhaustive list, TA's have the authority to decide whether the attire is appropriate or not. Ensure you read your lab manual so that you know what we are looking for when deciding whether attire is appropriate or not. And if you have questions, you can ask ahead of time. At the end of an experiment, you will always have waste, you will always have leftover stuff that you have to get rid of.
This waste must be disposed of properly. Different types of waste go into different containers. You can read about what types of waste go into each waste container in your lab manual. Inappropriate mixing of waste streams, or in other words, different types of waste, is a safety hazard. If you don't know where your waste should go, don't be afraid to simply ask your TA. Remember they are there primarily for your safety and they will be happy to tell you into which waste bucket to place your waste. If TAs see you disposing of waste in an improper container, they will deduct points from your experimental score. It is better to ask than it is to lose points. At the end of your experiment, you and everyone else in your section must ensure that your lab is clean. There are portions of the lab such as the weighing balances, the sinks, and the waste disposal areas and so on that don't belong to any one person. As a result, they tend to get messy fairly quickly. These community areas do belong to all of you, and so all of you are responsible for ensuring that these areas are clean and organized. To reflect this, your TA will grade the cleanliness of your lab after every experiment. These lab cleanliness points will be the same for everyone in the section. Before you leave, ensure that all community areas have been cleaned appropriately. The rubric that will be used to assign your lab cleanliness grades can be found on the course website. As mentioned throughout this webcast, there are many penalties that can be given if you do not abide by the safety rules. In addition to the situations we have discussed in this webcast so far, your lab notebook experimental score can be reduced as a result of other safety infractions. Examples can be found in the course syllabus. Each infraction will reduce your lab score by 10 points, up to a maximum of 20 points per lab. If you continue to commit infractions even after losing 20 points, you may be dismissed from the lab and forfeit all lab points associated with that experiment. To get you up to speed at the start of the course, there will be a lab check-in. Lab check-in is mandatory. Any student failing to attend the lab check-in and a safety orientation will receive a failing grade for the course. Lab check in is where you'll meet your TA, be assigned a lab drawer, and locate important safety equipment inside the laboratories. If you know that you will be unable to attend check-in, you must give prior notice to the instructor with proper documentation for an excused absence to avoid that automatic failing grade. Check-in procedure can be found in your lab manual. During lab check-in, you will locate important safety equipment in the lab so you know where they are and how to use them. That brings us to the end of this webcast. Remember, above all else in this course, safety is a priority. Ensure you listen to your TA< keep an eye on each other, and exercise good common sense.
Hello there. In this fundamental webcast, we will be discussing line structures. Line structures are the most common way organic molecules are drawn in organic chemistry courses. Being able to interpret and draw line structures is critical to your success in organic chemistry. Before talking about line structures, let us first discuss organic molecules in general. For some basic facts about organic chemistry and organic molecules in particular, organic molecules are comprised primarily of carbon and hydrogen atoms. However they are not comprised exclusively of carbon and hydrogen. Remember that heteroatoms are non-metallic, non-carbon, non-hydrogen atoms. Common heteroatoms that appear in organic molecules include nitrogen, oxygen, and the halogens. Other heteroatoms such as sulfur and phosphorous do appear in organic molecules, but will not appear in this course. One of the most important skills you will acquire in organic chemistry is how to draw and interpret organic molecule structures. Molecular structures are how we show what atoms are connected to what other atoms. If you are concurrently taking CHEM 232, you will be discussing this topic there as well. So think of this as studying the same material for two different courses. To begin, let me draw you a molecule called 3-butene-1-ol. You don't need to know anything about this molecule, you don't need to why why it's called that, or memorize its structure. I'm simply using it as an example. When drawing the structure, you have to show what atoms are present. In this case I'm going to start with this carbon. And you also have to show what is connected to those atoms. These lines you see me drawing between that C, which stands for carbon, and that H, which stands for hydrogen, is a bond. And now I'm going to draw another bond from this carbon to an adjacent carbon, but this time I wanna add a second line. That second line is also a bond. This is a double bond, which hopefully you remember from general chemistry. The carbon-hydrogen bonds are single bonds, and the carbon-carbon bond I have drawn here is a double bond. I'm going to continue drawing this molecule. And there we go. That is 3-butene-1-ol. You can see that I have four carbons present in this molecule, right down the middle. Remember the octet rule from general chemistry. In organic chemistry, the most common atoms you will find are carbon, nitrogen, oxygen, and hydrogen. Carbon, nitrogen, and oxygen are all second row elements, which must follow the octet rule. Notice how every carbon in this molecule follows the octet rule. Now let us look briefly at the oxygen. If you look at the oxygen, what I have drawn, that oxygen only has two bonds, therefore it is not following the octet rule, right? Well, not quite. Also remember that atoms can have lone pairs, and that's what this oxygen possesses. Now we can see that this oxygen is also following the octet rule. What I have drawn here is a structure that corresponds to 3-butene-1-ol. However this is not how most organic chemists would draw the structure. How most organic chemists will draw the structure is what I will draw on the right. And I'm done. Now, compare how long it took me to draw the structure on the right to how long it took me to draw the structure on the left. The structure on the right is what we call a line structure. And as you can see, the line structure is comprised mostly of lines. Now, how does the line structure on the right correlate to the structure I originally drew on the left? When drawing or interpreting a line structure, there are a few rules you need to be aware of. Located at the intersection, corners, or vertices, whatever word you prefer, of a line structure, you will find carbon atoms. That means this atom on the left which I am circling in red is a carbon atom, this corner next door is a carbon atom, and I'm going to continue down the line structure, putting a red dot over all of the carbon atoms. Do you see how these carbon atoms correlate to the structure I drew on the left? Where this carbon on the farthest left is that carbon atom? Notice how this has a C double bond. This also has a carbon double bond. And as we go from left to right, you see how these carbon atoms correlate.
To the structure on the left. so rule number one of line structures: every intersections, every corner, every vertex corresponds to a carbon atom. now let's move on to the second rule, maybe you have already recognized that these lines that connects the carbon atoms corresponds to the bonds. For this line, which i'm overlaying in blue, is a bond. this other line is a bond, and this line is a bond, and so on. and you can see how that carbon-carbon double bond have two lines[ where i have a second line denoting that double bond. so in a line structure, every line corresponds to a bond. if you have two lines, you have a double bond. if there are three lines, you would have triple bond. you may have notice how the line structure is significantly less cluttered than the original structure i drew on the left. this is because we have not drawn in the hydrogens. in a line structure, the hydrogens are implicit. they are not drawn, but we know they are present. let's go ahead and draw in the implicit hydrogens in this line structure. hopefully you can see how these hydrogens in the line structure map on to the hydrogens in the original structure on the left. you can see this carbon here on the left had 2 hydrogens attach to it, and this carbon here on the left also has 2 hydrogens attach to it. in a line structure, the hydrogens attach to carbons are generally not drawn, this is to reduce clutter to make it easier for us to see the rest of the molecule. as you might imagine, as we get to larger and larger molecules, we're going to have larger and larger numbers of hydrogen atoms present. and draw all those hydrogen atoms is both time consuming and makes it more difficult for us to see the rest of the molecule. note how in this line structure it was only the hydrogens on the carbons that were implicit. the hydrogen attach to the oxygen atom was drawn, as you can see. hydrogens attach to heteroatoms, that means hydrogens attach to oxygen and nitrogen, both commonly are always drawn in line structures. the reason that hydrogen atoms attach to heteroatoms are different than hydrogen atoms attach to carbons is because hydrogen atoms attached to heteroatoms are often used in chemical reactions. they're often very important in reaction mechanisms. in contrast, hydrogen atoms attached to carbons are not used often, so it is usually ok to simply leave those implicit. also notes how i have not drawn the lone pairs on the oxygen atom. i can do that. i think i would've had drawn in those lone pairs if i wish, but it is not required. you can draw them in, there's nothing wrong with draw in the lone pairs, and in fact, it may be better for you at the start to draw in those lone pairs so you remember they are present. however, when given a line structure, always remember that heteroatoms have lone pairs, even if they are not already drawn in for you. to recap the basics of line structures; in a line structure, every intersection, every vertex, every corner, whatever description works best for you, corresponds to a carbon atom. you can see that via the red dots on this line structure. every line connecting one atom to another atom is a bond; more lines means more bonds. so one line is a single bond, two lines is a double bond, and three lines is a triple bond. in a line structure, the hydrogen atoms attach to carbon atoms, are implicit. they are not drawn, that doesn't mean they are not there. the hydrogen atoms are always there because remember, carbon must always obey the octet rule. that means if you see a line structure, such as you see here on the right, you must remember that if this carbon has only 2 bonds shown, there must be 2 implicit hydrogens atoms present in order to obey the octet rule. hydrogen atoms attached to heteroatoms such as oxygen and nitrogen are always drawn. finally, the lone pairs on heteroatoms can be drawn but don't have to be. so if they are not drawn for you, do not forget that they are there. we use line structures so that drawing the structures like i did on the left because line structures are faster to draw, they have significantly less clutter, and they are more representative of the actual shape of a molecule. on the left i have drawn all these bonds at 90 degree angles. however, you know from vsper theory, which you learned about in general chemistry, that most bonds aren't at 90 degree angles. you may remember that this carbon is sp3 hybridized, therefore it is tetrahedral. and that this carbon here is sp2 hybridized therefore it is trigonal planar. and you can see how the line structure better reflects that reality. for this carbon if i draw in that implicit hydrogen, remember this carbon is sp2 hybridized, therefore it's molecular geometry is trigonal planar, therefore the bond angle should be 120 degrees. and this line structure indeed shows 120 degree angle.
Look at the carbon on the right. We know that there are two hydrogens attached. It is sp3 hybridized, therefore it is tetrahedral in geometry. And while these bond angles are not 109.5 degrees, they are closer to that than what we saw here on the left. Now let's get some practice interpreting line structures. On this slide, I have four line structures. Let us go ahead and identify the carbon atoms in the line structure in the upper left. Remember that every corner and every intersection in a line structure is a carbon atom, so let's go ahead and find those. One here at the end, one here, and we continue down the line structure. Every one of those dots is a carbon atom. Therefore, there are six carbon atoms present in this molecule. What about hydrogen atoms? How many hydrogen atoms are present? Because we are just starting, let's go ahead and draw in the implicit hydrogen atoms to make that counting easier. Look at this carbon farthest left. This carbon has two bonds drawn connecting to it. Therefore, to fulfill the octet rule, there must be two hydrogens attached. Let's also look at the carbon next door. This carbon has three bonds connected to it. One, two, and three. To fulfill the octet rule, this carbon must have one hydrogen attached to it. Now, let's go over one more. This carbon has one, two bonds already attached to it. Therefore, this must have two hydrogens attached to fulfill the octet rule. And as you continue down, we simply follow that same rule, until all carbons have fulfilled the octet rule using hydrogen atoms. Notice how this carbon here has no hydrogen atoms attached. That is because it already has four bonds. One, two, three, and four. Therefore, there are no hydrogens attached to his particular carbon. Let's count the number of hydrogens present. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten. There are ten hydrogens present in this line structure. How about double bonds. Are there double bonds present in this molecule? Yes, we see that this carbon-carbon connection here is a double bond. And we see that this carbon-oxygen connection is also a double bond. Remember that every line corresponds to a bond. If there is one line, it is a single bond. If there are two lines, it is a double bond. Now, what I would like for you to do is to pause the video and do the same analysis for the remaining three structures. Identify how many carbon atoms are present in each line structure, and how many hydrogen atoms are present in each line structure. What I suggest you try to do first is to identify the number of hydrogen atoms without drawing them in like we did here. An important part of organic chemistry is being able to interpret a line structure without drawing in all of the implicit hydrogens. So go ahead, pause the video for a few minutes and tell me how many carbons are present in each of the remaining line structures and how many hydrogens are present in each of the remaining line structures. Welcome back. Let's see how you did. Let's look at the structure in the upper right. How many carbon atoms do I have? I have one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten carbon atoms. How about hydrogen atoms? Let's go ahead and draw those in just for this one. I have one hydrogen attached to this carbon. Why only one hydrogen? Well let's look at that carbon. We have one bond, two bonds, three bonds. Therefore, this carbon needs only one hydrogen to fulfill the octet rule. And that is the same for all these other carbons on this side of the molecule. What about these carbons in the middle? How many bonds do those have? One, two, three, and four. These carbons in the middle already have four bonds. Therefore, they have no hydrogens attached to them. And if we go around the ring, we see that each of the remaining carbons have two hydrogens attached to them.
And if we count them, we can see that we have one, two, three.....eleven, and twelve hydrogens on this molecule. Now, let's look at the structure on the bottom left. I see four carbons and I see eight hydrogens. If you only counted six hydrogens, don't forget to include the hydrogen atoms attached to the heteroatoms. Those are also present. They are important to count. If we go to the structure in the bottom right, I see six carbon atoms, and fifteen hydrogen atoms. If your numbers don't match mine, then go ahead and draw in the implicit hydrogens and count again. Hopefully, this section has been good practice for you in learning how to interpret line structures. That brings us to the end of this webcast. To recap: Line structures are an efficient way to draw organic molecules. As most atoms in organic molecules are second row elements, most atoms obey the octet rule. In a line structure, each vertex or corner corresponds to a carbon atom. Each line corresponds to a bond. Because carbon follows the octet rule, each carbon atom with fewer than four explicitly drawn bonds must be connected to implicit hydrogen atoms. The number of hydrogen atoms connected to each carbon is the number needed to get that carbon atom up to a full octet. Or, in other words, four bonds total.
Hello there, in this webcast we will be talking about functional groups. Understanding functional groups is critical to understanding organic chemistry, but even before that, to simply talking about organic chemistry. This webcast will discuss what functional groups are, why they are important, and how to identify and name them. There are many ways to take atoms and connect them and put them together. Fortunately for us there are many combinations of atoms that are common in organic molecules that we hear all the time. We take these particular combinations of atoms and we give them names. These named combinations are what we call functional groups. We call them functional groups because these combinations of atoms give the molecule its unique chemical properties. They give the molecule its function. Being able to identify functional groups in a molecule is incredibly important in organic chemistry because it is those functional groups that you will use to perform chemical reactions. To begin with we are going to talk about carbon functional groups. Organic molecules that are comprised entirely of carbon and hydrogen are what we call hydrocarbons. An example of a hydrocarbon would be gasoline. There are two main types of hydrocarbon functional groups. The first are what we call saturated carbons. Saturated carbons are carbons that contain only single bonds, carbons are sp3 hybridized. Here in the upper left we see a carbon that is attached to three hydrogens. You also see that there is this line, this bond, going over to the left. All this is showing is that this carbon is attached to something here on the left. We call that a methyl. If we take that same carbon, but replace one of the hydrogens with a bond, again to some atom, now we have a carbon that is still sp3 hybridized but is attached only to two hydrogen atoms. We call this a methylene. We continue the pattern and replace another hydrogen with another bond to some atom, now we have only one hydrogen attached to our sp3 hybridized carbon so we call it a methyne. For these first three entries it didn't matter what was connected to the carbon. For a quaternary carbon it must be bonded to four other carbons, whereas for the others, for the methyl, the methylene, and the methyne they can be bonded to carbon or a heteroatom such as oxygen or nitrogen. Keep that distinction in mind. Now that we have discussed saturated carbons, let us discuss unsaturated carbons. Unsaturated carbons are sp2 or sp hybridized. Here in the upper right we have what is called an alkene. You might also hear alkenes referred to as olefins, they mean the same thing. We have two carbons that have a double bond connecting them. This carbon carbon double bond is what we are talking about when we say alkene. An alkene has hydrogens or carbons attached to it. If we take three alkenes and attach them in a particular way, we get what is called a benzene ring which you can see down here. A benzene ring is not an alkene. A benzene ring is comprised of alkenes but they are not the same, they undergo different chemical reactions. If we take a benzene ring and connect it to something, you bond it to something, its called a phenyl ring. In organic chemistry when you are talking about this kind of structure as a functional group, you will always refer to it as a phenyl ring. A phenyl ring is a type of aromatic ring. You do not need to know what an aromatic ring means right this moment. it will become much more important when we discuss NMR spectroscopy.
Finally here at the bottom, we have an sp hybridized carbon and an sp hybridized carbon connected via a triple bond like we do here, we have what is called an alkyne. In case it is difficult to see, there are in fact carbon atoms here at the intersection. So if you see an alkyne, remember that. These are the names of the most important carbon functional groups you will find in organic molecules. Over time, these names will become second nature to you. If you are taking CHEM 232 concurrently, you'll be doing this in CHEM 232 as well. You can think of this as studying one thing for two different courses. Now lets move on to non carbon-based functional groups. Let us start with molecules that contain halogen atoms. Here, I am showing a chlorine atom. I can use a fluorine atom or a bromine atom or an iodine atom here and it wouldn't change. Whenever you have a halogen attached to a carbon, that is called a alkyl halide. Now let's talk about oxygen-containing functional groups. If i have an oxygen that is connected to a hydrogen atom and a carbon atom of some kind, this is called an alcohol. If I take that same oxygen atom and connected to two carbon atoms, it is now called an ether. Now let us discuss nitrogen-containing functional groups. On the right, we see three types of nitrogen containing functional groups. If I have a nitrogen connected to two hydrogens and a carbon, this is called an amine. In this particular case, it is called a primary amine. If I take this same amine and now i connect it to a carbon atom instead of a hydrogen, it becomes a secondary amine. If I take that same amine and now connect it to three carbon atoms, it becomes a tertiary amine. Hopefully you can see the pattern: one carbon atom, primary amine; two carbon atoms, secondary amine; three carbon atoms, tertiary amine. All these functional groups are amines, and so if i ask you what type of functional groups contain a nitrogen atom, if you respond 'an amine,' that is a correct answer. If I ask you to be more specific, then you can say primary, or secondary, or tertiary amine. One note before we continue: for alkyl halides and alcohols, there are primary alkyl halides, secondary alkyl halides, and tertiary alkyl halides. Similarly, there are primary alcohols, secondary alcohols, and tertiary alcohols. That naming system is completely different for the naming system for amines. If you are concurrently taking CHEM 232, you will learn about that nomenclature as you start discussing elimination and substitution reactions. The final type of functional group you are going to discuss is the carbonyl. A carbonyl is a carbon double-bonded to an oxygen. It doesn't matter what that carbon is attached to. Whenever you have a carbon double-bonded to an oxygen, that is a carbonyl. Carbonyls are incredibly important functional groups in organic chemistry. As a result, it is important to be able to recognize and name all types of carbonyls. As you might imagine, there are many different things that we can attach to this carbonyl. Every combination has a particular name. this is because every combination performs different chemistry. For this course, here are the five types of carbonyls you need to be familiar with. Here on the left, we have what is called a ketone. A ketone is when you have a carbonyl that is connected to two carbon atoms. If you look down below, we have what is called an aldehyde. An aldehyde is a carbonyl connected to a carbon atom of some type and a hydrogen atom. This is a very small change, isn't it? We've simply exchanged a carbon atom for a hydrogen atom, but this has incredible consequences for chemical reactivity. It is important that you are able to distinguish them. In the upper right, we have what is called a carboxylic acid. We have an -OH group, but this is not an alcohol. Previously I told you that an alcohol was an oxygen connected to a carbon atom and a hydrogen atom, and in most cases this is true. In this case, however, we treat the entire package as a functional group. Note how I have circled the carbonyl and the -OH. They cannot be treated as separate components. They are one whole. Similarly, down below, we have what is called an amide. This -NH2 is not an amide. We treat this combination of atom as a single entity. So when you have a carbonyl attached to an N of some kind and a carbon, you have what is called an amide. This particular amide is a primary amide because its nitrogen is connected to one carbon and two hydrogen atoms. A secondary amide would replace one of these hydrogen atoms for a carbon atom of some kind. It is the same naming scheme you saw with the amines.
Finally, down below, we have carbonyl that is attached to an oxygen like we saw with the carboxylic acid. However, it is an oxygen that is bonded to a carbon, not a hydrogen atom. This type of functional group is called an ester. To recap: A carbonyl is a carbon double bonded to an oxygen, connected to some other atom. There are many different types of carbonyls, and you will learn about these types in CHEM 232. For this course, these five carbonyls are the most important carbonyls to be able to recognize and name. For some practice, let's look at these lines structures, and let's identify what functional groups are present in these line structures. I will walk you through the one in the upper left. Here, what do we see? I see a carbon carbon double bond here, which I know is called an alkene. I see several CH2s, which I know are called methylenes. I see this CO, which is an carbonyl. What kind of carbonyl is it? Well, this carbonyl is bonded to a carbon on the left, and a carbon on the right. Therefore, this particular carbonyl is a ketone. And finally here at the end, I see that I have a methyl. And there we go. I have identified all of the functional groups present in this line structure. Now, what I would like you to do is pause this video, and spend some time identifying the functional groups present in the remaining three line structures. When you are ready to check your work, unpause the video. Welcome back! Let's see how you did. Let us look at the structure in the upper right. You may have noticed that there are carbon carbon double bonds here in this ring, like there was in the structure on the left. You may have named each of these as alkenes. It is true that these are carbon carbon double bonds; however, recall that when you take three carbon carbon double bonds- when you take three alkenes- and you connect them in a particular way, they form a different functional group. These would not be called alkenes by an organic chemist. Instead, an organic chemist would recognize that this as a whole is called a phenyl ring. And this distinction is important. Alkenes undergo different chemical reactions than phenyl rings do. Alkenes have different properties, including spectroscopic properties than phenyl rings do. And you will see this when we start talking about spectroscopy. That is most of this molecule. The remaining pieces of it are simply a series of methylenes. So that wasn't so bad. Hopefully you now recognize the differences between a simply alkene and a phenyl ring. Now, let's look at the structure in the bottom left. What are the functional groups present here. We have here on the left a methyl. We have here an -OH, which we know is called an alcohol. There are two hydrogen attached to this carbon; therefore, this is a methylene. And finally, we know that this -OH is not considered to be on its own because it is attached to a carbonyl. So, we recognize that this entire thing is what we call a carboxylic acid.
Hopefully you were able to distinguish the alcohol from the carboxylic acid. These two -OH's are not the same. Now let's look at the final structure. We have a methyl here farthest left, we have a large number of methylenes. Now let's look at these heteroatoms. The one on the right we know is an amine. That is a correct answer. If you wanted to be more specific, you could say that this is a primary amine, but it is not required unless it is relevant and by relevant I mean that I ask for it or the distinction is important when we talk about spectroscopy and we will see an instance of that later in the course. Now let's look at this oxygen. We have this oxygen that is attached to the carbon on the left and a carbon on the right. Therefore, this oxygen is part of what we would call an ether. And there we go. We have identified all of the functional groups that are present in these line structures. Hopefully this was helpful to you. Being able to interpret line structures, and that includes identifying the functional groups that are present, is crucial to your success in organic chemistry. That brings us to the end of this webcast. To recap, functional groups are common combinations of atoms in organic molecules. Different functional groups will do different chemistry. Sometimes functional groups can be similar in both structure and in name but they are all different. It is incredibly important to be able to distinguish between each type of functional group even if there is only a small difference between them because that small difference in terms of structure can have massive implications for their chemistry. For example, in this webcast, you saw many different types of carbonyl functional groups. Ketones, aldehydes, esters and so on. While they all have a similar motif, they all have a carbonyl, a C double bond to O, they are all different and you should treat them differently. For similarities in name simply look at ether and ester. Confusing those two functional groups is common when learning about organic chemistry for the first time. While the names are similar, the functional groups are quite different and so when memorizing these functional groups do ensure you are not confusing one for the other.
Hello there. In this Fundamentals webcast, you will be discussing molecular polarity. This is a topic you have heard previously in general chemistry. We're going to use the same ideas that you learned in general chemistry, only now we're going to apply them to organic molecules. To start that conversation, let us discuss electronegativity. Recall from general chemistry how electronegativity is a measure of how strongly an atom attracts the electrons in a covalent bond towards itself. How do we know which atom the electrons will prefer? How do we know which atom the electrons will be pulled towards? We have to look at the electronegativity values. Here on the right, I have a table of electronegativity values. The higher the value, the more electronegative the atom is. As you can see, all these elements have a value. That means they all try to pull electrons towards themselves. They are competing with the other atom in the bond. For example, let's look at a C-H bond. We see that carbon has an electronegativity value of 2.5 and we see that hydrogen has an electronegativity value of 2.1-- a value of 2.5 is greater than 2.1, therefore the electrons are pulled towards the carbon atom in a carbon-hydrogen bond. There is an electronegativity difference. In this case there is a difference of 0.4 units. Let's do this same analysis for a carbon-carbon bond. Carbon has an electronegativity value of 2.5, carbon has an electronegativity value of 2.5, therefore there is zero difference in electronegativity values. Do the same thing for a carbon-nitrogen bond. Carbon is 2.5 and nitrogen is 3.0, therefore our difference is 0.5, And because nitrogen has the higher value, the electrons move towards the nitrogen. Now look at hydrogen and oxygen, hydrogen is 2.1 as we know, oxygen is 3.5, therefore you have a difference of 1.4, and because oxygen is higher in electronegativity value the electrons move towards the oxygen. In other words, these bonds are polar. If there is a difference in the electronegativity value, as we can see, the electrons prefer to spend more time around one of the atoms in the bond, and the atom they prefer to spend more time on, is the more electronegative atom. And we show this via these partial charges, these delta pluses and delta minuses, which hopefully you recall. If electrons spend more time around one of the atoms in a bond, that atom is overall more negatively charged. So on this slide, we have three polar bonds and one nonpolar bond. But now we get to a caveat. If I have a very small difference in electronegativity, that bond is polar but it's not that polar and, in fact, it's probably pretty similar to a nonpolar bond. So what's that cut-off? At what point, at what difference in electronegativity do we say 'Okay, this bond is now polar enough to be considered polar.' That difference is usually listed as 0.4-- so if you look at our electronegativity difference values, this is a difference of zero, therefore a carbon-carbon bond is nonpolar. If you look at a carbon-hydrogen bond, that difference is 0.4-- that is not above the threshold I just told you, of 0.4-- therefore, while a C-H bond is slightly polar, it is not polar enough for us to consider it polar. So a C-H bond is also nonpolar. In contrast, if you look at the C-N and O-H bonds down below, we have a difference of 0.5-- that is above 0.4, therefore a C-N bond is polar. If we look at the hydrogen-oxygen bond, that is a difference of 1.4-- therefore, that bond is also polar. In this course, it will be important for you to be able to determine what bonds in a molecule are polar. Does that mean you need to memorize this table? And do these calculations in order to identify what bonds are considered polar, and what bonds are considered nonpolar? The answer is no, and you might have already figured out how to make that distinction without doing any of these calculations. You see on this slide how a carbon-carbon and a carbon-hydrogen bond are considered nonpolar. But whenever you connect a carbon to a heteroatom, or a hydrogen to a heteroatom, those bonds are polar, and that is the distinction you need to be able to make.
That brings us to the end of the webcast, to recap electronegativity is a measure of how strongly an atom pulls electrons towards itself. Large differences in electronegativity lead to polar bonds. In organic molecules what types of bonds fall into this category? As you have just seen, carbon carbon and carbon hydrogen don't have a very large difference in electronegativity, therefore they are considered to be nonpolar. This is not to say that in a carbon hydrogen bond there is no difference in electronegativity, clearly there is a difference. But it is not large enough for us to consider a carbon hydrogen to be polar. In contrast carbon heteroatom bonds are usally polar. Carbon oxygen, carbon nitrogen, carbon halogen all have large differences in electronegativity. Similarly hydorgen heteroatom bonds are polar. Hydrogen oxygen, hydrogen nitrogen, hydrogen halogen bonds tend to have a large difference in electronegativity.
compound characterization intro to spec lets say I handed you this white powder and asked you to tell me what it was how would you go about doing that? the process of identifying an unknown is called characterizing it when we characterize a compound we learn about its properties for example what you might do is melt this unknown powder and see if that melting point matches the melting point of any known compounds however as you might imagine their are many compounds in the world which have the same melting point so that on its own is not enough to figure out what it is another tool you could use is what we call spectroscopy spectroscopy is useful because it analyzes compounds on the molecular level there is no way for us to directly see what atoms make up a molecule and how those atoms are connected what we can do however is indirectly observe the molecule and how we do this is by seeing how the molecule interacts with various forms of energy what do i mean by indirectly observe? think about this analogy imagine you are in a hallway and the hallway has a corner and around that corner is an object of some kind you cannot see the object directly because the wall is in the way however if there is a mirror at the corner of the hallway you can use that mirror to indirectly view the object its a similar idea here we cannot view the molecule but we can view the energy that the molecule is interacting with a basic schematic of a spectroscopy experiment is shown here you have some kind of energy source. usually it is some form of light. we then take whatever energy we have selected and we shoot that energy at a sample of the compound we are trying to characterize. such as the white powder on the previous slide the energy interacts with the sample in some way and then some energy is emitted that emitted energy is analyzed via a detector of some kind the detector then translates that information from the energy to give us data in some form usually in what we call a spectrum this spectrum organizes the information in a visual way that we can interpret we then take that data that spectrum and we analyze it and we interpret it to come to a conclusion hopefully the identity of the molecule you will spend a significant amount of time in the early portion of this course interpreting various types of spectra it is likely that you have not seen anything like these spectra before but that is no reason to be worried, while these spectra may appear abstract to start with all spectra observe certain rules and you can use those rules to interpret them you should treat observing spectra very much like diagnosing a medical or engineering problem in many cases these types of problems are not directly observable but you can use multiple pieces of info to identify the problem anyway for example lets say you are a doctor and a patient comes to you with some symptoms a cough a fever something along those lines you cannot look at the patient and see the bacteria or the virus causing the illness the symptoms are an indirect way of observing the illness however the symptoms on their own are usually not enough to identify the illness you might run some blood tests and those blood tests come back and give you more information that is complementary to the symptoms that you already knew about. you then take the symptoms and the information you obtained from the blood tests and you can come up with a diagnosis in other words that was a logic puzzle. you took the information available and you came to a conclusion spectroscopy is the same way you do not memorize spectra instead you will be exercising your critical thinking skills in this course you will be given several different types of spectra and you will be asked to pull out information and then use that information make a conclusion of some kind usually identifying an unknown molecule .
Lets say we are trying to figure out what that white powder at the beginning of the webcast was. What are some questions we might ask to try and identify it? You might ask, what atoms make up this compound? Are there carbon atoms in there? Are there oxygen atoms in there? If there are oxygen atoms, how many oxygen atoms are there? In order to figure out what the molecule is, we have to know what our building blocks are. What do we have to put together? Once we know what building blocks we have, how are those building blocks connected? In other words, what type of functional groups are present? If we have oxygen atoms, are those oxygen atoms in alcohols, are they in ethers, are they in carbonyls, things like that. Once we know what functional groups are present, how are those functional groups connected? How do we put the pieces together to come up with the final molecular structure? Each spectroscopic method you learn about in this course will help answer one or more of these questions. The spectroscopic methods you will use in this course will be mass spectroscopy, infrared spectroscopy, and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. For now, all you need to be aware of is what spectroscopy is and why we use it. That brings us to the end of this webcast. To recap this webcast, we cannot directly observe molecular structures. What we can do however is use spectroscopy to indirectly view molecules. Spectroscopy allows us to characterize these molecules and learn something about their structure. By the ends of the first few classes of Chem 233, you'll be able to take all of this information from different types of spectroscopy and determine the structure of an unknown molecule.
Compound Characterization: Mass Spectroscopy. At the end of the introduction to spectroscopy webcast which you viewed last week, we discussed what kinds of information we need in order to identify an unknown compound such as the mysterious white powder in that webcast. To identify an unknown compound, we need to know what atoms make up that compound, what building blocks are available to us and it would be helpful to us to know any functional groups common in combination to the atoms that are present in that molecule. Once we have that information, we can then begin trying to see of we can figure out how all those pieces are connected in order to identify the structure of our unknown compound. In order to gain that information and to answer these questions, we use spectroscopy. Today, we are going to see how mass spectroscopy allows us to answer this first question: What atoms make up our mysterious compound? Using modern techniques, mass spectroscopy allows us to determine the molecular weight of our mysterious compound. On the right side of the screen here we have a general schematic of a mass spectroscopy instrument. How a mass spectroscopy experiment works is that you take your analyte to the compound your are analyzing and you convert it into ions here in the ion source. You take your sample, you inject it into the instrument and the instrument converts it into ions. These ions are then sent into an area containing magnets. These magnets then filter these ions. How do magnets separate ions? Magnets generate a magnetic field. These ions are not magnetic. So what is happening here? Remember from physics that when you have a magnetic field, you also have an electric field. Using these magnets, we can create a magnetic field which creates an electric field which allows us to filter out the ions we want. This filtering process separates ions based on their mass to charge ratio which on this screen is designated by m/q where m is the ion mass and q is ion charge. There are a few other letters which can be used to signify the ion charge. In this presentation, you might see e used to represent ion charge. You also might see the letter z used to represent the ion charge. These three letters: q, e, and z all mean the same thing. The instrument can then tells us what mass to charge ratios are present using a detector. We then look what kinds of ions remain in our sample. You do not need to memorize this schematic. You do not need to know all the pieces of the mass spectrometer. You simply need to know the basic components. You have an ion source that makes ions. These ions are then sent to an area containing magnets. These magnets then sort, separate, filter out the different kinds of ions and they do so by using the mass to charge ratio. If our detector detects a particular mass to charge ratio, it lets us know via the spectra output. There are two general methods to turn our sample into ions. The first way is to use what is called the hard ionization. Electron ionization is an example of a hard ionization process. Hard ionization deliberately fragments our molecule using force. In the case of an electron ionization process, we take electrons and we shoot them at our molecule. These electrons hit our molecule and break it into many pieces. Based on what fragments our detector sees, we can then learn what pieces are present in our molecule and try to put it together.
On the cover of you laboratory notebook, there is a mass spectroscopy section which lists several common fragments and their associated masses...................for this course we will not focus very much on hard ionization techniques.....do not memorize that table of fragments......know what hard ionization is, know the basics of how it works, and know what kind of information it gives us... the second type of ionization is soft ionization....an example of soft ionization would be electrospray ionization..............soft ionization takes our molecule and it turns it into an ion....but it doesn't fragment the molecule in the process............this type of information is useful because it allows us to find the molecular formula of the molecule... because our molecule is kept intact in one piece..we can discover its molecular formula........on this slide, we see this structure of acetylsalicylic acid better known as aspirin.....aspirin has a molecular weight of a 180 g/mol.......however as is... aspirin is not detectable on a mass spectrometer.....remember, mass spectroscopy requires your compound your analyte to be converted into an ion.......how electrospray ionization accomplishes this is it takes the molecule......and it detaches an ion to it......there are many ions that are available but the two most common ions are the hydrogen ion shown here as H+.....and the sodium ion.......shown here as Na+.......before we continue for some terminology.....you may here me refer to dehydrogen ion as a proton... this is an organic chemistry par-lands... we call a hydrogen ion a proton because if you take a hydrogen atom which contains one proton and one electron......and you remove that one electron to make it into an ion... all you're left with this a proton..you will hear me use this terminology again when we begin discussing nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy......recall that our mass spectrometer detects a mass to charge ratio not simply mass....fortunately for us... electrospray ionization tends to make ions that contain only one charge.....for this course, If i give you a mass to charge ratio... you can safely assume that the charge is one... as a result, if we were to take these combinations... of aspirin and these ions and combine them....we would expect to see a mass to charge ratio of 181 and 203 in our final mass spectrum....let us say we analyze aspirin using electrospray ionization..what would the spectrum look like....we would see so that it looks like this....this is a mass spectrum, on the x-axis we have the mass to charge ratio......and on the y-axis we have something that is called intensity... all intensity measures is the number of ions corresponding to that mass to charge ratio......for your purposes all you care about is whether a peak appears at a particular mass to charge ratio or not..............in this mass spectrum we see a mass to charge ratio of 181..you can see how that matches our expected mass to charge ratio....this peak this signal corresponds to the mass of our compound plus the mass of the hydrogen ion......similarly on the right.....we have a peak a signal.....of 203.....which corresponds to what we would expect... for the mass of our compound plus the mass of sodium....we call these peaks the largest peaks.......molecular ion peaks... it's because it corresponds to the mass of the intact non-fragment in the molecule..........how is this useful to us?.....let us say that we took our unknown compound and we analyze it using electrospray ionization and what we saw were these two peaks what would they tell us......what these peaks would tell us is that we have a compound that had some mass using the mass of the compound we are going to use a computer to establish the molecular formula of that compound......for example, in this case if we knew our compound had a molecular weight of 180 g/mol, the computer would tell us that meant our molecular formula was C9H8O4........it would not tell us how those atoms were connected but this is a great place to begin... somethings to keep in mind..........be on the look out for M+H and M+sodium....in mass spectroscopy experiment you might see one you might see the other you might see both of them be aware of that if asked to interpret mass spectra.........
Let us look a little more closely at these mass spectrum.....clearly there is on major peak... one peak larger than the rest however you might have also noticed....these smaller peaks.....to the right....what do these smaller peaks correspond to?......those smaller peaks are a result of isotopes....if you look at the periodic table of elements....you will be carbon has an atomic weight of 12.011...that atomic weight is an average of all the isotopes of carbon.....if you take a sample of carbon almost 99% of that carbon will be carbon 12....about 1% of that carbon will be carbon 13 and a minuscule amount of that carbon will be carbon 14...........how does this affect mass spectrum?......recall, that mass spectroscopy separates compounds based on their mass to charge ratio........imagine a situation where we have a molecule of aspirin that contains no carbon 13....i have a molecular weight of 180 g/mol....now let us say I have a molecule of aspirin that contains one atom of carbon 13.........as a result, the molecule of aspirin with one atom of carbon 13 will have a mass of 181 g/mol... where we might call M+1....how would these combinations of different isotopes affect our mass spectrum......for a molecule of aspirin that contains no carbon 13 we have a mass of 180 g/mol.....we add the mass of a proton to that we see 181 g/mol.....and that is the largest signal in our mass spectrum......if instead we have a molecule aspirin that contains one atom of carbon 13......we have a mass of 181.....plus the mass of a proton.........to give us 182....which we see in the mass spectrum don't we?....notice how the signal for 182 is much smaller than the signal for 181.......that is because....carbon 13 is much less abundant than carbon 12.....if you look real closely you can see another even smaller signal at 183....that would correspond to an aspirin molecule that contain two carbon 13 atoms.........the take home message here is that the presence of isotopes..will give us different masses... for the same molecule........these three signals you see here... all belong to aspirin.......it's just that some of those molecules of aspirin have different isotopes of carbon... of course carbon is not the element that exist in different isotopes........there are two other elements for understanding these isotopic patterns is very useful....the first of these elements is chlorine........here i have a molecule that contains a chlorine atom......using the atomic weight of chlorine i see in the periodic table I calculate a molecular weight for this molecule of 156.57.........do i see that mass on the mass spectrometer?...to make this discussion easier....the mass spectra you see on this slide will not include any ions......remember that in reality you would see a mass plus the mass of an ion of some kind. a proton or a sodium but discussion of this slide on isotopic patterns you will use the mass of these molecules without the additional ions.......what i see is a signal corresponding to a mass of 156.....an a signal corresponding to a mass of 158...why is that?.....chlorine has two main isotopes....chlorine... can come......the mass of 35.....and it could come with a mass of 37.....................if you take a sample of chlorine..roughly 75% of that chlorine will be chlorine 35..and roughly 25% of that chlorine will be chlorine 37.......and you might be able to see how this distribution is reflected in the size of these signals...........you have two main isotopes of chlorine.......therefore, we should see two main signals... one for each isotope of chlorine... and they should exist in a roughly 3 to 1 ratio........because the isotopes exist in a roughly 3 to 1 ratio.....therefore, if you're looking at mass spectrum you see two main peaks there are 2 amus apart... why 2 amus?...because that's the difference in amus between the two isotopes of chlorine.......that are roughly at a 3 to 1 ratio....you have a chlorine somewhere in your molecule..very useful to know.........similarly... I take that same molecule and now replace the chlorine with a bromine i see another isotopic pattern........in bromine my two main isotopes.....................
A Bromine-79 and Bromine-81 which exists in a roughly 50/50 ratio. And we see that in the mass spectrum for this compound we have two main signals that are two amu's apart. Again, that is because that is because there is a 2 amu difference between the isotopes of bromine, and the signals are roughly the same size. If you are analyzing a mass spectrum that contains two signals two amu's apart that are roughly the same size, you have a bromine somewhere in your molecule; another very useful pattern to know. That is the end of this webcast. To recap what we have discussed I expect you to have a basic understanding of mass spectroscopy theory. Know that mass spectroscopy takes your sample and converts it into ions. Those ions are then separated via their mass to charge ratio and depending on the type of ionization we use, we get different information. Electrospray ionization turns our sample into ions by attaching ions to our molecule, the most common of these ions being proton and sodium although others are possible. Electroscpray ionization allows us to figure out what the molecular formula of our unknown compound is. Finally Chlorine and Bromine have very characteristic isotope patterns in a mass spectrum. If you see those isotope patterns, you should recognize what kind of atom is present in your molecule. Before we finish, a few reminders for the second lecture. You have another series of webcasts to watch for the second lecture, these webcasts will be on infrared spectroscopy. Once you have watched all the assigned webcasts for lecture 2, you may choose to complete the optional pre-lecture survey located on the compass2g course website. The responses to this survey will help me determine what to focus on during lecture period. If you decide to come to the optional period, be sure to remember to bring clicker and worksheet. And finally, remember to complete the online pre-lab quiz for your first experiment before the due date. If you do not complete the pre-lab quiz you will not be allowed to perform your first experiment.
Compound characterization: Infrared Spectroscopy Background. In this webcast, we will discuss the theory behind infrared spectroscopy. At the end of the introduction to spectroscopy webcast, we discuss how we needed certain pieces of information in order to identify an unknown compound. This webcast will discuss infrared spectroscopy, which will help us identify what functional groups are present in our molecules. Infrared spectroscopy, what you might guess from its name, uses infrared energy. In an infrared of IR spectroscopy experiment, you have your IR source, and the IR source radiates your samples with a beam of IR light. That IR light is then absorbed by the covalent bonds present in your molecule. The instrument then detects how much of that original energy did not get absorbed. It then plots that data as an expression of CM^-1. This unit is often called wave numbers; although you may have also hear it referred to as reciprocal centimeters or inverse centimeters. The IR spectrum that the instrument produces usually presents the output as percent transmittance. In other words, it shows the data as a measure of how much energy was transmitted through the sample or how much energy was not absorbed. Occasionally, you may see spectra that use percent absorbance instead. What does an IR spectrum look like? Here is the IR spectrum of asiprin (formal name of aspirin stated after). Here on the X-Axis, we have wave number. Here on the Y-Axis, we have percent transmittance. What we see here are number of peaks in this spectrum. What do these peaks tell us? We see here that at the top of the Y-Axis is one hundred percent. What that means is that if this line is close to the top, very little of that light was absorbed. That tells us that there are no bonds in our molecule that absorb the light at this wave number. In contrast, if we look at these peaks on the right, we see that the molecule absorbs a great deal of IR energy at these wave numbers. Every single one of these peaks you see corresponds to some kind of bond in our molecule absorbing that light. You will see how this is useful to use as we proceed through this webcast. To begin, let us have a short discussion on covalent bonds. You can treat covalent bonds as a classical vibrating string. If your bond has a dipole moment- in other words if you bond is polar- and that dipole moment changes as your bond stretches and contracts like a spring, it is what we call IR active. It will produce a peak in the spectrum. Where that peak appears in the spectrum depends on what wave number of light it absorbs. What wave number light it absorbs primarily depends on two things: the mass of the atoms in the bonds and the strength of the bonds. Now, let us talk a little bit more about what I mean when I say a change in dipole moment. Here, I have a carbonyl. I have a carbon double bonded to an oxygen, and you know that this bond is polar. In other words, it has a dipole moment, which we represent using the Greek letter 'nu'. Imagine taking that bond and stretching it like a spring. What happens is this dipole moment gets larger as you stretch the partial positive and partial negative charges away from each other, you get a larger dipole moment. In contrast, if we contract or compress our bond like a spring, we move those partial charges closer together; therefore resulting in a smaller dipole moment. As our bond stretches and contracts, we have a change in dipole moment. If we have a large change in dipole moment, a large delta view, where delta represents change, you would have a strong IR single. That means that we would see a large peak, corresponding to this bond in the IR spectrum. [Gibberish] that every polar bond can be seen in an IR spectrum. That is not quiet true. Here, I have carbon dioxide. Carbon dioxide has a carbon oxygen double bond to the right, and a carbon oxygen double bond to the left. These bonds are polar. Carbon is delta positive, where as the oxygens are delta negative. Now, recall that being IR active means that we see a change in dipole moment. If I take carbon dioxide, and I stretch the left oxygen the same way that I stretch the right oxygen. In other words, do I see a change in dipole moment. No! These dipole moments would cancel each other out. Therefore, because we would see little or in this case no change in dipole moment, we would not see an IR signal. This type of stretch is what we call IR inactive.
Does that mean Carbon Dioxide does not appear in an IR spectrum? It turns out we do see carbon dioxide in an IR spectrum and heres why. On the slide, you see what we call modes of vibration. These are the various ways bonds in a molecule can vibrate. As we saw on the previous slide, if we take carbon dioxide and we stretch it symmetrically like you can see here, you would see no change in dipole involvement. However, if we take that same molecule but asymmetrically stretch the bonds, we would see a change in dipole involvement. And therefore, we would see carbon dioxide in an IR spectrum. The consequence of having different kinds of vibration, is that one bond can show up in many different places in an IR spectrum. Fortunately for us, we can still interpret large portions of an IR spectrum with these. Do not memorize these six modes of vibration ,simply know that there are many different kinds and that each kind of vibration can give it's own signal in an IR spectrum. To review what we have discussed so far, we know that we can treat covalent bonds in a molecule as if they were springs. In an IR Spectroscopy experiment, our compound is exposed to infrared light. The bonds in our molecule absorb some of that light and begin vibrating. These vibrations then give us the signals we see in an IR spectrum. Now we are going to discuss what determines where those signals appear. Let us treat our covalent bonds as springs. I have an atom on the left and an atom on the right and a bond between them, which acts like a spring. Recall Hooke's Law from physics that says the force needed to move the spring depends on two things. It depends on 'k', the force constant, in other words how stiff the spring is. And 'X', how far you are moving the spring... what's the displacement. If we take this simple equation and we substitute in some variables relevant to atoms and we do some rearrangements, we get this new equation... it looks scary but its actually not that bad. What this equation tells us is that this variable called 'nu bar', also known as the wave number of length the bond will absorb, depends on two things. It depends on kf, again our force constant... it's how strong our bond is. The stronger the bond the more stiff the bond. As you can see, as kf gets larger, the wave number must also get larger. Second, our wave number depends on the mass of the atoms. As you can see, as our masses get larger, the denominator of this fraction gets bigger. As the denominator of this fraction gets larger, the right side has to get smaller. Hopefully that makes sense to you mathematically, heavier atoms result in a lower wave number. In summary, this equation tells us that the wave number of light that is absorbed by a bond depends on the strength of the bond and on the mass of the atoms in that bond. It turns out the type of light these bonds absorb is infrared light. By shining infrared light onto a molecule you can see what wave number of light are absorbed by the bonds in that molecule. Here are some examples. On the left I have a series of bonds and on the right I have the wave number values of the light that is absorbed by each particular bond. Lets compare these first two. C-H and C-D. D stands for deuterium. Deuterium is a hydrogen atom that contains one proton and one neutron in the nucleus. That means that it is heavier than a normal hydrogen atom. How does the wave number of light that these bonds absorb compare to each other? As we can see, the carbon deuterium bond absorbs at a lower wave number than the carbon hydrogen bond. That matches what we solve for the equation here. We know that heavier atoms result in a lower wave number. Now let's compare these last three. Carbon-carbon single bond, carbon-carbon double bond, and carbon-carbon triple bond. We see that these bonds also do not have the same wave number absorption value. Why is that? Let us look at bond strengths. Look at the carbon-carbon bond strengths, we see that as we go from a single bond to a double bond to a triple bond, it takes more energy to break that bond. In other words, our bond becomes stronger. Based on the equation we discussed on the previous slide, stronger bonds should absorb at higher wave numbers. And we see that as true. A carbon-carbon triple bond absorbs at a higher wave number than a carbon-carbon double bond, which absorbs at a higher wave number than a carbon-carbon single bond.
The payoff here is that because infrared spectroscopy allows us to see what kinds of covalent bonds are present within a molecule, it allows us to determine what kinds of functional groups are present in the molecule. For example, if you look at this table, if my infrared spectrum has an absorbance at 2200 wave numbers, that means I know I have a C-C triple bond in my molecule. I have an alkyne. We will talk more about common absorbances and how we can use them in structure determination in the next webcast. But for now, we have reached the end of this webcast. To recap, infrared spectroscopy allows us to identify functional groups present in a compound. The reason we can use infrared spectroscopy to do this is because each type of covalent bond in a molecule absorbs a particular wave number of light, and we can see that wave number by what is absorbed in an infrared spectrum. The presence or absence of an absorbance in an infrared spectrum can confirm or disprove the presence of a functional group. Of course there are exceptions, and we will discuss them in the next webcast, but for now, if an infrared spectrum contains an absorbance for a particular bond, that means the molecule has that type of bond. If an infrared spectrum does not contain an absorbance for a particular type of bond, that means the molecule does not contain that type of bond.
Compound characterization IR spectroscopy characteristic stretches. This is the slide we used to end the previous webcast on the background to IR spectroscopy. In that webcast we discussed how we can IR spectroscopy to identify functional groups within a molecule because certain bonds absorb certain wave numbers of light. You can see a small subset of that here in this yellow box. Of course, organic molecules can contain many other types of bonds other than ones listed in this box. In this webcast we will talk about common bonds that you will find in organic molecules, and the typical absorbances you will find them at. This slide contains an image and a number of tables. If you own a CHEM 233 lab notebook you can find this image and these tables on the cover of your lab book. If you do not own a CHEM 233 notebook you can find a copy of these tables on the compass2g course website. What do we have here? Up top we have what is being called a generic IR spectrum. By generic all it means is that it is showing all of the common types of absorbances that you can find in an IR spectrum. Up to this point you have heard me refer to each of these peaks as absorbances or signals. Another way to refer to these is using the word 'stretches'. Remember these peaks result from bonds stretching as a result of absorbing certain wavenumbers of light. How does this image correlate to the tables down below? This image is divided into a number of different regions based on letter. A B C D and so on. Each letter corresponds to a particular type of stretch. for example, the letter A responds to OH and NH stretches. This is the first thing that you should get from this slide. Different bonds can have absorbances that appear in the same region. They can overlap. As we can see, OH bonds and NH bonds overlap quite a bit. If that's true, how can you say whether a stretch in this area belongs to an OH bond or an NH bond? Well, to do that you are going to need different information. We'll talk about that information in future webcasts. The second thing that you should get from this slide is that stretches don't appear at a particular wavelength. They appear in a range. If you're looking at the OH stretch, it doesn't just appear at just, say, 3400 wavenumbers. It's anywhere between 3200 and 3600 wavenumbers. similarly, if we look at the F region, which corresponds to carbonyl stretches, we see that they can appear anywhere between 1650 wavenumbers and 1785 wavenumbers depending on the type of carbonyl. Does the fact that a stretch can appear at different wavenumbers tell us something about the type of functional group? It actually can, and we'll talk about that in relation to carbonyls later in this webcast. Now, this slide contains a ton of information. Do I expect you to memorize every single bond on this table. No, what I expect you to memorize is the general ranges for the most important of these stretches. Let's talk about those stretches here. On this slide I have here an empty IR spectrum. What we're going to do is fill it in piece by piece with the most common stretches you might see in an IR spectrum. The first piece we're going to look at is from 1500 to lower wavenumbers. This particular region is called the fingerprint region. The fingerprint region tends to be very crowded. Many different types of absorbances appear in this region. This region is often very difficult to interpret correctly. As a result, whenever you are interpreting an IR spectrum I strongly recommend that you do not attempt to interpret the fingerprint region. The reason we call this the fingerprint region is because it is characteristic of a particular compound. Because it is so complex it acts as a fingerprint for a particular compound and we can use to identify it. The next region to look at is approximately 1650 wavenumbers. In this region we see carbon carbon double bonds. Now, note that this is approximate. Carbon carbon double bonds can appear above 1650 they can appear below 1650 but they will always appear in this area. The next region to be on the lookout for is at approximately 1700 wavenumbers.This region we see carbonyls. Again, carbonyl stretches may be above 1700, they might be blow 1700, but they should be somewhere in the area. The next region to look at is at around 2200 wavenumbers.
Here we will find carbon-carbon triple bonds. But there is a caveat here, if you look at the table on your lab notebook cover or on the course website you will notice that for the carbon carbon triple bond it says that the signal for the carbon-carbon triple bond might be weak if the carbon-carbon triple bond is too symmetrical. Why is that? Remember a bond is IR active if there is a change in dipole moment as it stretches and contract. If a carbon-carbon triple bond is too symmetrical there isn't a large difference in dipole moment, which means that even if it stretches and contracts there isn't going to be much of a change and so it won't appear or if it does appear it won't be very large. As a result c-c triple bonds might not appear in a IR spectrum even if there in the molecule. How will you know whether it will appear or not? You won't. And so you will have to use other spectroscopic methods to corroborate your conclusion. This is one of those exceptions I mention at the end of the last webcast and you have to be careful with it. The next region to look at, is at 3,000 wave numbers. Here we find C-H bonds. The type of C-H bonds however is important. If the carbon in a C-H bond is sp3 hybridized, then it appears below 3000. Typically between 2900 wave numbers and 3000 wave numbers. Although stretches can go below 2900 wave numbers. However if it is sp2 hybridized then it appears just above 3000 say from 3000 wave numbers- 3100 wave numbers. And that's incredibly useful, whether a C-H stretch is above or below 3000 tells us what type of carbon we have in that bond. Similarly, if we have a sp hybridized carbon that's even further above 3000 usually at around 3300 although again it can be a little bit above or a little bit below. This is an example of how the same type of bond can appear in different parts of the IR spectrum based on what comprises the bond. The sixth and final region is not really a particular wave number its more a block from 4000 to can be as low as 3000 or even lower. Is where we find OH bonds and NH bonds the reason that these type of bonds can appear in such a wide area is because their shape is different than the shape of most other stretches. The shape of an OH or an NH stretch tends to be quite broad in contrasts the shape of most other bonds, say a carbonyl, tends to be quite narrow like I'm drawing here on the right, and thats another important thing to know about an IR spectrum. The shape of a stretch can tell you what type of stretch it is. Most stretches will be quite sharp and distinct. You can immediately identify an OH or a NH stretch because they will look different they will tend to be much broader than most other stretches. While I do not expect you to memorize the table I showed you on the last slide, I do expect you to memorize these six regions. Now let's take this knowledge and put it to use by interpreting an IR spectrum here is an IR spectrum for Aspirin again. let's look at this step-by-step, remember that the fingerprint region is 1500 wave numbers and lower. Which means we're not going to interpret any of this. And frankly that comes as an relief to me, because look at all of these stretches. Look at how difficult it will be to try and interpret this, so we ignore all of that. Now let us look at the next region, let's look at roughly 1650, do I see a stretch there? Indeed I do. Therefore there is a C-C double bond in the molecule is that true? In fact there is I have several C-C double bonds. These C-C double bonds give me this stretch. Ok so that's the C-C double bond region. Now let's look at the C-O double bond region, do I see anything there? That's at roughly 1700 and indeed I do, I see 2 peaks in that region that means I have a carbonyl somewhere in my molecule and I do in fact I have 2.
You might be wondering 'why do these two carbonyls show up at different locations?' We'll talk about why that is on the next slide. Now let's look at the next region. At 2200, I would see stretches that correspond to carbon carbon triple bonds. Do I see any stretches in this area? No. No I don't, therefore I probably don't have any carbon carbon triple bonds. Now remember the caveat that I stated: just because I don't see a stretch here does not mean there isn't a carbon carbon triple bond. But it's a very good indication that I don't have a carbon carbon triple bond. Ok, now let's look at the next region. Let's look at roughly 3000. What do I see here? I see a bunch of stretches below 3000. That means I have sp3 hybridized carbons attached to hydrogens. Is that true? Yeah, cause I have those here on the methyl group. Ok, do I have anything above 3000? Well, that's kind of hard to say. I do have this region right here. There is a stretch of some kind here, but what does that stretch correspond to? It's actually difficult to say, and that's because in this region we actually have stretches overlapping with each other. This very broad stretch corresponds to the -OH located here. Unfortunately, that stretch is overlapping with what we should see for these sp2 hybridized carbons attached to the hydrogens. The stretches belonging to these bonds are present, unfortunately they are being covered up by the stretch for the -OH. This is an important lesson to learn for IR spectroscopy. Stretches corresponding to different bonds can overlap with each other. Hopefully interpreting this IR spectrum is now no longer as intimidating as it once was. You now know that everything here on the right side of the spectrum is not interpreted, which makes our work much easier. And you saw how each of these other clearly defined stretches corresponded to bonds present in aspirin. You also learned that the stretches for different kinds of bonds can overlap with each other and how it is important to be aware of that possibility. Let us discuss carbonyls a little bit. One of the most common mistakes that you may make when interpreting infrared spectroscopy involves carbonyl stretches. On this slide, you see the IR spectroscopy data tables corresponding to carbonyls that you can find on your organic chemistry lab notebook cover. You see how each type of carbonyl: carbonyl attached to a ring, an ester, an aldehyde, a ketone, an acid, an amide, and what's called a conjugated carbonyl are given their particular ranges. The mistake you may make is believing that these values are exact values. From this table, you may believe that ketones appear at 1715, whereas carboxylic acids will always appear at 1710. This is not true. The potential danger of this table is you believing that there are such thing as a ketone stretch, or an ester stretch, or an aldehyde stretch. The carbonyl stretch tells you that there is a carbonyl in your molecule. It does not tell you what kind of carbonyl you have. Fortunately you can narrow the options. If you look at this table, you see that there is a dividing line at 1700. These types of carbonyls above this line will always be above 1700. If you have an amide, or a conjugated carbonyl, that stretch will appear below 1700. If you do not know what conjugated means yet, when I say conjugated carbonyl, I mean a carbonyl connected to a carbon carbon double bond. Why do amides and conjugated carbonyls appear below 1700? This is because of resonance. Let me draw an amide here. R stands for some alkyl group. I can take this amide and draw a resonance structure where I take the lone pair on the nitrogen and move it this way to make this resonance structure.
Why does this matter? Remember that the wave number of a stretch depends on the strength of the bond. You know that the stronger the bond, the higher the wavenumber it appears at. Remember from general chemistry that what a bond is actually like can be treated as a sort of average between all of its resonance structures. Let us look here particularly at the carbon-oxygen bond. And the resonance structure on the left, I have a double bond between the carbon and the oxygen. Double bond is a strong bond. In the resonance structure on teh right, I have a carbon-oxygen single bond which is weaker than the carbon-oxygen double bond. You may recognize at the resonance structure on the right is not a particularly good one because it has charges. As a result, when averaging these resonance structures, this resonance structure on the right does not count for very much. However, it counts enough that the carbon-oxygen double bond in an amide is weaker than the carbon-oxygen double bond of most other carbonyls. It's the same argument if you have a conjugated carbonyl. Take a conjugated carbonyl of some kind and I do the same process. I can draw a similar resonance structure that has a carbon oxygen single bond. As a result, after averaging these structures the carbonyl in a conjugated carbonyl molecule is weaker than most other carbonyls. As a result, it shows up at a lower wavenumber. Before finishing up this slide, some of you may be wondering, okay if that is true, why is it that esters don't do the same thing? Those oxygens in esters have lone pairs why can't they move in the same way? This is because oxygen is much better at holding onto its lone pairs. As a result, the lone pairs on oxygen do not move in the same way. Therefore, the carbonyl in an ester is weakened because of resonance. Using this information we can now explain why we saw two carbonyl stretches in the IR spectrum for aspirin. Here at roughly 1700, two carbonyl stretches. WE have one at approximately 1750, the one on the left, and one below 1700, the one on the right. What this tells me is that the one below 1700 belongs to either an amide or it is a conjugated carbonyl. We see in our molecule amide or it is conjugated carbonyl. And we see in our molecule, we have a conjugated carbonyl. We have this carboxylic acid carbonyl directly connected to a carbon-carbon double bond. In contrast, we have this ester carbonyl which is not conjugated. Therefore, it should appear above 1700, and indeed it does. And around 1750. This is a fantastic example of how you can use the location of a carbonyl stretch and try to identify what kind of carbonyl it is. One final thing before we finish this webcast. Do you remember that carbonyls and carbon-carbon double bonds can overlap in this region? How can you tell the difference? As you can see, the carbonyl stretches tend to be stronger and more broad than the carbon-carbon double bond stretches. That won't always be the case, but if you have to make a decision, you could use size and shape to help you make that decision. That brings us to the end of this webcast, To recap, while you have access to the wavenumber values to many bonds via those tables at the beginning of this webcast, do not memorize all of them. Instead, memorize the six primary regions that we discussed. The first is the fingerprint region that is below 1500 wavenumbers. This region is difficult to interpret, and I recommend you that you avoid trying to use it in your infrared spectrum analysis. There is a carbon-carbon double bond region at approximately1650 wave numbers, there is the carbonyl region at approximately 1700 wave numbers.
We know now that the type of carbonyl matters a great deal. The stretch for most carbonyls will appear above 1700. Some carbonyls, carbonyls that are a part of amides or carbonyls that are conjugated will appear below 1700 because of resonance. that resonance weakens the C-O double bond causing them to absorb light at lower wavelengths. There is the C-C triple bond region at approximately 2200 wavenumbers. Now, remember the C-C triple bond stretch may not appear or may be very weak if the bond is too symmetrical so always be careful when working in this region. C-H bonds appear around 3000 wavenumbers and you know the type of C-H bond determines where it appears. C-H bonds that are sp3 hybridized are below 3000, C-H bonds that are sp2 hybridized are above 3000. And finally, O-H bonds and N-H bonds tend to appear at around 3500 wavenumbers. They also tend to be shaped differently than most other stretches. In the next webcast you will see examples of all of these stretches. There you will see how shape can be used to identify stretches and you will see examples of how the same type of bond, say, carbonyls or C-H bonds, can appear at different locations depending on the type of carbonyl or C-H bond.
compound characterization. infrared spectroscopy example spectra. in this webcast i'll be showing you a number of IR spectra. the purpose of this webcast is to demonstrate how even small changes in the structure of the compound can have large consequences in the associated infrared spectra. you will see how stretches that we discussed in the previous webcast actually look like in a real infrared spectra. here we have two molecules, hexane and 1-hexene. Hexane contains many sp3 hybridized carbons connected to hydrogens and as we can see how below 3,000 we see stretches that correspond to the sp3 hybridized carbons attached to hydrogens. when we compare hexane to 1-hexene we still have many sp3 hybridized carbons attached to hydrogens and we still see stretches below 3,000 that correspond to that. we also have however sp2 hybridized carbons attached to hydrogens. those should appear above 3,000 and in fact we do see stretches above 3,000 that correspond to those sp2 hybridized carbons attached to hydrogens. you continue on and compare 1-hexene to 1-hexyne which has an alkyne, we see that we have an sp carbon attached to a hydrogen. that should show about roughly 3,300 wave number and indeed we see that in the IR spectrum. We see this stretch which corresponds to this sp hybridized carbon attached to a hydrogen. now lets compare the spectrum for 1-hexyne to the spectrum for 2-hexyne. both have alkynes but they are different in a key way, notice how 1-hexyne has an sp hybridized carbon attached to a hydrogen which is why we see this stretch at 3,300 wave number area. 2-hexyne does not have that bond. the carbons in 2-hexyne are both bonded to carbons. there is no sp hybridized carbon attached to a hydrogen. that is why this signal here is not present in 2-hexyne. you look at roughly 2,200 we see a stretch here, that is the carbon carbon triple bond stretch. you see that same stretch down below. notice however that the stretch for 2-hexyne is much weaker than the stretch for 1-hexyne. its because the alkyne in 2-hexyne is more symmetric has a much smaller change in dipole moment than 1-hexyne. therefore we have a correspondingly smaller signal in the IR spectra. those are adding non-carbon functional groups. on top we have hexane once again and down below we have hexanol. hexanol has an alcohol has an O-H bond. notice how this has a very obvious consequence, the IR spectra for 1-hexanol has a very strong a very broad stretch in the 3,400 wavenumber area. if we change the alcohol to an amine, in this case a primary amine, we see a stretch in the same area but it's much smaller compared to the alcohol stretch and it also has a different shape. we see that there are two peaks to this stretch. this is how you can distinguish an O-H from an N-H using IR spectroscopy even though they appear in the same place. An O-H is very large, very broad whereas an N-H tends to be much smaller. A primary amine tends to have two peaks, secondary amines tend to have only one peak. Now let's compare our hexanol to hexanal. We've gone from an alcohol, an O-H to a carbonyl. As you can see the O-H stretch has disappeared in hexanal because there's no O-H present. However, we now have a new stretch at 1,700 wave numbers this new stretch corresponds to the carbonyl. as you can see it is quite strong which is characteristic of carbonyl stretches. compare hexanal to hexanone, we go from an aldehyde to a ketone. lets look at these carbonyl stretches, these are incredibly similar. there is no way you will be able to distinguish the aldehyde from the ketone based on the carbonyl stretch they are too similar this is why i emphasized in the previous webcasts how you cannot use the location of a carbonyl stretch to determine what type of carbonyl is present. you can, however, use a different stretch which i did not talk about earlier because it sometimes shows up and sometimes doesn't but it can be useful. if you look at the structure for hexanal, we have a unique c-h stretch, this hydrogen attached to the carbonyl carbon that bond is special. that shows up in a particular location in a particular shape which we can see here. this is often called the fermi doublet. again it doesn't always show up and even if it does, it might be covered up by other stretches. don't rely on this appearing however if it does appear, this fermi doublet is characteristic of an aldehyde. see how we see those stretches here but not in the ketone.
Now let's compare the aldehyde to an ester. we again see two stretches in the carbonyl region that are very similar. you would not be able to tell which of these was the aldehyde or which of these was the ester based solely on the carbonyl stretch. now let's compare the ester to the acid, as you can see the acid has two bonds that contain oxygen a carbonyl and the O-H as you can see both the ester and the acid have a carbonyl stretch because they both contain carbonyls. however, only the carboxylic acid contains an O-H which is why only the IR spectrum corresponding to the acid contains this broad O-H stretch. This is the end of the example IR spectra for this webcast. These were good examples to use to show you how the presence of absence of a functional group in a molecule can greatly effect what you see in an IR spectrum. The ability to determine which stretches are or are not present will be crucial to your success in interpreting IR spectra.
SORRY, THIS VIDEO DOES NOT SUPPORT CAPTION YET.
We name nuclei aligning in the same direction as the magnetic field as alpha spins, whereas we name nuclei aligning in the opposite direction as the magnetic field as beta spins. The reason that we see more alpha spins than beta spins has to do with energy. On the right, we see a graph where as we go from left to right along the x-axis, the strength of our magnetic field, measured in a unit called Tesla, increases. On the y-axis, we have energy where you go from the bottom to the top of the graph, we increase in energy. These black lines you see correspond to the energy of alpha spins and beta spins, where the beta spin is the top line and the alpha spin is the bottom line. You can see that the moment we apply a magnetic field, the alpha spins and the beta spins no longer have the same energy. Beta spins increase in energy whereas alpha spins decrease in energy. The reason that most nuclei are alpha spins is because alpha spin nuclei are lower in energy. One more piece of information before we continue. Notice how the distance between the alpha spin energy and the beta spin energy increases as the strength of the magnetic field increases from left to right. This increasing difference in energy becomes very important when we talk about the quality of our NMR spectrum, which you will discuss late in this webcast. Now let us discuss how an NMR experiment actually works. At this point, we have taken our sample of nuclei and placed them into a magnetic field where they have aligned themselves in the same direction or in the opposite direction of the magnetic field. Remember that alpha spin nuclei are lower in energy than beta spin nuclei. What happens next is we treat these nuclei with radio wave energy. Which I am representing here as B1. The nuclei then absorb the energy and now all nuclei become beta spin. Our nuclei have absorbed the energy given by the radio waves in B1 causing them to what we call spin flip. To think about this graphically, let's look down below. If I have an alpha spin nuclei and it absorbs energy, it goes from the alpha spin to a beta spin. This is the first half of an NMR experiment. You have a sample of nuclei in a magnetic field. You then expose those nuclei to radio waves, causing the nuclei to flip their spins. The second half on an NMR experiment is simply waiting for your spin flipped nuclei to relax back to their original alpha spins. These spin flipped nuclei are now higher in energy but they don't want to be higher in energy so what they do is they relax, they release that excess energy to return to the alpha spin state. This energy they release is detected by the instrument and used to make the spectrum that we get as a result of an NMR experiment. It is the energy that is released that we measure. The amount of energy released depends on the magnetic field strength of the instrument. Recall the graph from the previous slide that showed how the difference between the beta and alpha spin energy grew larger as the instrument used a higher magnetic field. A consequence of that energy difference is that when the nuclei relax from the beta to the alpha spin state, they release more energy. Which gives us better quality data. The data we receive comes in this format. This is what is called a free induction decay for FID for short. An FID is shown as a time domain. What does that mean? This graph here shows how the signal we measure in an NMR experiment changes over time. Data in this form is very difficult to interpret. Fortunately, what we can do is use what is called a fourier transform. A fourier transform is a mathematical operation that turns one complex function into another. In this case, we are taking a graph that measures over time into a graph that measures over frequency. This frequency domain is the spectrum we see at the end of an NMR experiment. You can see how weve gone from a series of blobs on the left to a series of clear defined signals here on the right. Now that we understand how NMR works, what can it do for us? As you might imagine from the definition of an organic molecule, which we know are molecules made primarily of carbon and hydrogen atoms, organic compounds tend to contain many hydrogen atoms. Since hydrogen atoms are NMR active, we can observe how they interact with energy in an NMR spectrometer, allowing us to learn something about those hydrogen atoms. We will begin talking about what we can learn using NMR spectroscopy in the next webcast.
Before we end this webcast, a note on NMR solvent. In an NMR experiment you usually take your compound and dissolve it into a solvent of some kind. A common solvent is Chloroform (CHCI3), because many compounds are soluble in chloroform, however you might notice a problem here chloroform contains one proton, that means chloroform will appear in the NMR spectrum. We do not want that because all we want to see in our NMR spectrum are signal that belong to the compound that we are examining. What can we do to get around this? What we can do it use deuterated solvents, in this example deuterated chloroform. Remember that deuterium is a hydrogen atom that contains both a proton and a neutron in the nucleus. How does going from a hydrogen atom which contains only one proton in the nucleus to another hydrogen atom that contains both a proton and neutron in the nucleus help us? Because the spin number of one deuterium is different that the spin number of one half for hydrogen. A deuterium atom will not interfere with a proton and NMR experiment. Therefore, by using deuterated solvents we can perform an NMR experiment without the solvent contaminated our NMR spectrum. Thats the end of this webcast, to recap proton NMR functions by placing molecules into a magnetic field and then irradiating those molecules with radio waves. Nuclei with particular spins for this course are the hydrogen nuclei and the carbon 13 nuclei align themselves mostly with the applied magnetic field. However, upon absorbing energy from the radio waves that are being irradiating with, those nuclei flip spins to align against the applied magnetic field.Then the nuclei are allowed to relax, releasing energy that can analyzed to give us information about the molecule.
Compound characterization: proton nuclear magnetic resonance interpretation part 1 examples. In this webcast we will go through a few examples to reinforce what you have learned concerning interpreting NMR spectra in the previous webcast. Consider this molecule on the left. Tell me how many signals you expect to see, and what are the multiplicities of those signals. Pause the video, take some time, and decide. Because this is a warm up, I included some helpful labels for you. The protons labeled Ha, are equivalent, and the protons labeled Hb are also equivalent. I should also remember that the proton that is part of the alcohol would also give its own signal. Well because it is labile, I may or may not see it. What about multiplicities? For the Ha protons, I would expect to see a triplet, which I will shorten to just T, because there are only two neighbors to the Ha protons. For the Hb protons, I would expect to see a quartet, which I will shorten to just q. Because the Hb protons have three neighbors. Remember, labile protons do not cause any splitting. Let's look at the actual NMR spectra and see how we did. Look at that! I see three signals: one, two, three. One of which is a triplet, like I expected, and one of which is a quartet, like I expected. Excellent. Do the chemical shifts make sense? Should the quartet be further downfield than the triplet? Remember the quartet belongs to the Hb protons. The Hb protons are very close to this electron withdrawing alcohol, therefore the Hb protons should be more shielded than the farther away Ha protons. Therefore the Hb protons should be more downfield and that matches what we see. Similar exercise here. Looking at this chemical structure, how many signals do you expect, what is your predicted multiplicity for each signal, and now try and predict the chemical shift for each set as well. Pause the video, take some time, and then let's see how you did. Welcome back! I expect to see three signals, the methyl on the left should produce its own signal, the methylene in the middle should produce its own signal, and the methyl on the left should produce its own signal. What about multiplicities? The purple protons have no adjacent hydrogens, therefore they should show up as a singlet, which I shall abbreviate using the letter S. The methylene protons have three neighbors, therefore they should show up as a quartet, and the blue protons have two neighbors, therefore they should show up as a triplet. What about chemical shifts? What do we predict for those? The purple protons are adjacent to a carbonyl. That carbonyl is electron withdrawing, but it is not very electron withdrawing. I predict those protons will appear at roughly 2.5 ppm. That's downfield but now very downfield. Similarly, the red protons, being adjacent to the same carbonyl, should be in roughly that same area. In contrast, the blue protons are pretty far away from that carbonyl, therefore they should still be pretty shielded. I predict they will appear at roughly 1.0 ppm. Your values may not match mine exactly, that's okay. So long as your values are in the same vicinity, you're thinking about this the right way. Now let's see how our predictions match reality. The purple protons should appear as a singlet at roughly 2.5 ppm. Is there such a signal in that area? Yes, there is. I have a singlet at roughly 2.1 ppm. My prediction was pretty close. My red protons should be a quartet at roughly 2.5 ppm. How did we do there? Pretty good, actually, there's a quartet at almost exactly 2.5 ppm. What about the blue protons? I should see a triplet at 1.0 ppm. Excellent! I see a triplet at just above 1.0 ppm. My predictions were pretty accurate. Why were my chemical shift predictions so accurate? This is because different types of protons appear in characteristic locations. Protons not near electron withdrawing groups tend to be at roughly 1.0 ppm. Sometimes a little more, sometimes a little less, but somewhere in that area. Protons near electron withdrawing groups such as carbonyls will appear downfield of that. Because carbonyls are weak electron withdrawing groups, they should be at roughly 2.5. Again, sometimes a little more, sometimes a little less, but somewhere in that area. The first two exercises asked you to take a structure and predict what the spectrum would look like. In most cases, however, we don't know what the compound looks like. Instead, we try to use the spectrum to tell us what the compound looks like. To do this, we have to look at a proton NMR spectrum such as this one, and be able to pull out all of the useful information. We usually organize that information using tables. In this course, when labeling signals in a spectrum, we are going to use letters. Where we start with A with the signal farthest downfield, and then go down the alphabet as we go to the right. Like so. What i would like you to do .
is pull out all the important information in this NMR spectra. that means i want you to tell me the integration of each signal, the chemical shift of each signal which i shall designate using the greek letter delta, and the multiplicity of each signal. spend some time and fill out this table and then come back and check your work. okay, let's see how you did. to find the integration of A, i look at this number below the signal. it says a value of 2 therefore A's integration is 2. i continue down the line filling in the values. if i don't have an integer i simply round the nearest whole number and there you go. i filled in the first column of my table. now let's look at chemical shifts. when it comes to recording chemical shifts it doesn't have to be exact. for example, for signal A i'm not going to record 3.413. there's no way i can get that exact. I'm just going to simply write 'okay it looks to me about 3.4 parts per million'. for B, it looks to me about 2.1. C is about, i might say 1.75 for that. again, it's not an exact value, but it's a best estimate just based on what i see. and then signal D is about 0.9. there you go, that's another column of very useful information recorded in our data table. now multiplicity. A has 2 peaks therefore that's a doublet, which i shall designate with lowercase d. B is a singlet, C has 7 peaks therefore that's a septet which i shall shorten to just 'sept', and then D is another doublet. excellent, that's the entire table of information that you can pull out of an NMR spectra based on what we've discussed so far. one more exercise before we go, however. using the multiplicity, tell me the number of adjacent protons. pause the video. tell me how many protons are next door to each of these signals. let's see how you did. A is a doublet. remember the n+1 rule, where n is the number of adjacent protons. for A, n+1 has to equal 2. therefore, n equals 1. there was 1 adjacent proton to signal A. to at B, that's a singlet so that's zero. if you look at C, that's a septet. it's got to be 6. 7 peaks, 7 minus 1 is 6. and D is another doublet. therefore that 2 has only adjacent proton. there we go. we now know how many equivalent sets of hydrogens there are. 1, 2, 3, 4. we now know how many protons belong in each set based on the integration. we have a rough idea of what kinds of protons these are based on the chemical shift. signal A is further downfield, therefore it must be near a strong electron withdrawing group. in contrast, signal D is very far upfield. therefore it must not be near any electron withdrawing group. we also know something about the neighborhood of all these signals. we know that the protons in signal A have only one neighbor. but the protons in signal C have 6 neighbors. this NMR spectrum is a partial NMR spectra. it is only showing some of the proton signals for this molecule. as a result we cannot identify this particular molecule. however, if we did have a full spectrum and you had a full table of information, all you would need to begin figuring out what the compound is would be the molecular formula. that brings us to the end of this webcast. to recap, the most important thing you can do when interpreting NMR spectra is to organize your data. this process begins by working through a spectrum one aspect at a time. label your signals in the NMR spectra and then identify their chemical shift, their integration, and their multiplicity. with that information in hand and organized, it will be easier to see how the all the different pieces fit together.
compound characterization proton nuclear resonance spectroscopy spectra interpretation part 1 in this webcast we will discuss how to interpret proton NMR spectra, what information can we gain from it, and what can we use that information for previous webcasts ended with this slide most organic compounds contain many hydrogen atoms as you can see from the structure of aspirin here on this slide we have hydrogen atoms on the aromatic ring we have hydrogen atoms on the methyl group over here and we have a hydrogen atom here as part of the carboxylic acid as you might imagine just from looking at the molecule there are many different types of hydrogen atoms how might that affect an NMR experiment the chemical structure you see here is of 1-propanol the NMR spectrum you see below it is the proton NMR spectrum for 1-propanol by the end of this webcast you will be able to see how the spectrum corresponds to the chemical structure what a proton NMR spectrum allows us to learn about a molecule are the number of unique sets of hydrogens in the molecule we will learn this via the number of signals in the proton NMR spectrum we will learn about the number of hydrogens in each unique set and we will learn this via the integration of each signal now number 1 and number 2 both sound similar here is the difference number 1 the number of unique sets of hydrogens tells us the number of different types of hydrogen atoms present in the molecule number 2 tells us the number of hydrogen atoms of each particular type proton NMR will tell us the number of hydrogens adjacent to each set in other words, proton NMR will tell us how many neighbors each set of hydrogen atoms has and it will do so via peak splitting, also known as multiplicity proton NMR will also tell us about the presence of nearby functional groups via something called chemical shift finally it will tell us something about connectivity where these hydrogen atoms are with respect to each other in the chemical structure this information is to us via something called J-couplings for this webcast, we will focus on only these first 4 points before we begin, we should discuss labile protons on the previous slide you saw how proton NMR can give us information about a molecule via things like the number of signals, the integration of the signals, the multiplicity, splitting of the signals, and their chemical shifts each of the aspects of the NMR spectrum follows certain rules those rules are what allows us to interpret an NMR spectrum labile protons are special labile protons tend to not follow the rules that you will learn in this webcast it is important to be able to identify labile protons and understand how they may or may not affect a proton NMR spectrum labile protons tend to be acidic protons examples of acidic protons are protons in alcohol and protons in amines these labile protons do not necessarily follow the same rules all other protons follow because of the process called exchange if you look at the structure of 1-propanol here on the bottom left we see a number of protons attached to carbon and we also see a proton attached to this oxygen protons attached to carbon by large stay in one place, they don't move in contrast this acidic proton proton, circled in red, this labile proton does move when we talk about exchange we mean these labile protons exchange between molecules you can imagine this proton being used to protonate, or being transferred to another alcohol this exchange process, this fact that labile protons tend to move around between molecules has a number of consequences unlike most other protons signals in an NMR spectrum labile protons often give broad peaks that do not integrate properly, they often have variable chemical shifts, and they do not always show coupling to adjacent sets of hydrogens we haven't talked about these topics yet but you will understand what these phrases mean as we go through integration and chemical shifts and coupling let's say we have an NMR spectrum and we suspect that we have a labile proton in our molecule is there a way that we can use this exchange process to figure out what signals belong to labile protons the answer is yes what we can do is we can add D2O to our NMR sample why would this help us remember that D stands for deuterium deuterium is simply a hydrogen atom that contains 1 neutron therefore deuterium will exchange with the labile protons in a molecule remember from the previous webcast that deuterium does not appear in a proton NMR spectrum as a result as this labile proton, circled in red, is exchanged for deuterium the signal in the NMR spectrum that belongs to this proton gets smaller and smaller and smaller until it disappears once it has been completely replaced with deuterium the addition of deuterium isn't the only reason a labile proton might disappear chloroform which is the most common NMR solvent is slightly acidic the practical consequence of this is that labile protons may not appear in an NMR spectrum, even without the use of D2O Here's a demonstration of a D2O experiment up top I have the NMR spectrum for this amine and the bottom I have the same spectrum for the same amine but I've added D2O are these 2 spectra different in the top spectra I see this signal here but in the bottom spectra I don't why is that It's because this signal belongs to the protons in the amine as theses protons are swapped out for deuterium this signal disappeared .
this is how you identify labile protons in your proton NMR spectra. in this webcast we will use the NMR spectrum of 1-propanol to demonstrate various ideas. as you go through each aspect of a proton NMR spectrum, the number of signals in that spectrum, the integration of those signals, the peak splitting of those signals, and the chemical shift of those signals, we will use 1-propanol as our example. now we will begin discussing application of NMR spectroscopy by first discussing equivalent hydrogens. when we talk about equivalent hydrogens, we are talking about hydrogens in the same chemical environment. one to way to describe chemical environment is by connectivity. in other words, what atoms are connected to these hydrogens and symmetry. equivalent hydrogens give rise to 1 signal in an NMR spectrum. for example, if i have 4 hydrogens that are chemically equivalent, i would see only one signal for those 4 hydrogens. for some examples let us begin by examining this structure here on the left. in this structure i have drawn in all of the hydrogens. i have also already told you how many sets are present in this one molecule. it turns out that all of these hydrogen atoms are chemically equivalent. let's talk about why that is. let us look at these 3 hydrogens on the left first. we see that these 3 hydrogens are all attached to the same carbon. the reason that these 3 hydrogens are chemically equivalent to each other is because if i take this carbon atom and i rotate it, i can rotate this hydrogen atom to be in this spot and this hydrogen atom into this spot. because i can freely rotate these hydrogen atoms to switch positions, they are chemically equivalent. this leads us to our first general rule for determining whether protons are chemically equivalent. hydrogens on the same carbon that can rotate, and can rotate is an important caveat which we will discuss shortly, are equivalent. so, these 3 protons on the left are chemically equivalent to each other. these protons on the right are chemically equivalent to each other. now let us discuss why the protons on different carbons are also equivalent to each other. this has to do with symmetry. draw a line straight down the middle of this molecule. you will see that the left side is a mirror image of the right side. because this molecule is symmetric, i can swap the positions of these protons simply by flipping the molecule. therefore these protons are chemically equivalent to these protons due to symmetry, which leads us to our second general rule. if a molecule is symmetrical or if a part of a molecule is symmetrical, mirror image sets of protons will be equivalent. let's show some more examples. in this new molecule i have 2 sets of protons. let's talk about why that is. i have these protons on the left which are attached to the same carbon so these are identical to each other. i have these protons on the right which are attached to the same carbon. therefore these are identical to each other as well. why are these protons on the right chemically equivalent to these protons on the left. this has to do with symmetry. i can flip or rotate this molecule and get the same structure back. therefore these green protons are chemically equivalent to each other. in contrast these red protons in the middle, while they are chemically equivalent to each other because they are attached to the same carbon, these red protons are not chemically equivalent to the green protons. let's go on to another example. in this structure, i have 3 sets of protons. the blue, the green, and the red. hopefully you can see why the green protons are different than the other 2 colors. these red protons on the right are part of a methyl group. these blue protons on the left also belong to a methyl group. yet they are different colors. why is this methyl group different from this methyl group? the reason for this is there is no symmetry in this molecule. this methyl group is attached to the carbonyl. this methyl group is attached to this methylene. therefore the red protons are not the same as the blue protons. use the same logic in rings. look at this molecule on the bottom left. i have 4 sets of equivalent protons. purple, blue, green, and red. by this point you should recognize that the red protons are different from all other protons and that the purple proton is different from all other protons. now let's look at the blue and green protons. these green protons are on opposite sides of the molecule, same with the blue protons. why are the green protons chemically equivalent to each other? this is because of symmetry. if i draw a line right through the middle of this molecule i see that i can rotate this molecule and flip it so that the green protons swap and the blue protons swap. one final, more tricky example. here i have an alkene. this alkene has 4 sets of equivalent protons.
I have these red protons that are part of the methyl group, and I have these purple, green, and blue attached to the alkene. Previously, I stated that if hydrogens are on the same carbon, they are equivalent. Yet, these green and blue protons are labeled as different. Why is that? It has to do with a stimulation that I said for that rule. That if they are on the same carbon and the carbon can rotate to swap the proton positions, then they are equivalent. This carbon carbon double bond cannot rotate; therefore, this green proton cannot switch positions with this blue proton. Therefore, they are not chemically equivalent. Okay. Let's give you some practice now. Here is one propanol. Pause the video, take a few minutes, and tell me how many sets of chemically equivalent protons are there in one propanol. Welcome back! Let's see how you did. I see the protons here as part of the methyl group being chemically equivalent. I see the protons on this methylene as being chemically equivalent. I see the protons on the next door methylene to be chemically equivalent. Finally, I see this proton as part of the alcohol, as it's own set. We finished our discussion on identifying equivalent sets of protons. Now we are going to talk about integration of the signals that result from those individual sets. Recall that each signal on a proton NMR spectrum results from one set of equivalent protons. What integration, or in other words the area underneath each of these signals, tells us the number of chemically equivalent protons that belong to that set. For example, let us look on the left side of the NMR spectrum here. I have this signal, which corresponds to one set of equivalent protons. This number underneath that signal is the integration. What this tells me is that there are two protons that belong to this particular set. If we go next door, I see an integration of 0.98. That is a fraction. Is that a problem? No. These values that we see below are calculated by the computer and are calculated using the data provided by the experiment. Lower quality data will give us less accurate integrations. When we see non-integer integration, like we see here, you usually round to the nearest whole number. So, in this case, 0.98 rounds to 1.0. So, this signal here, contains only one proton in that particular set. You go to the next signal. This signal we would round to two. So, there are two protons that are part of this set. And this final signal, with an integration value of three indicates that there are three protons in this set. Now there is one stipulation here. All of these integration values are relative. Remember, a computer calculates these integration values. What the computer does not know is exactly how many protons are present in each signal. All it can give us is the ration between all of these signals. For example, these signals can instead be four, two, four, and six, or six, three, six, and nine. The computer would not be able to distinguish that. For this course, you can assume that the integration signals that you see are accurate as is; unless, the equation says otherwise. Now, let us how the NMR spectrum for one propanol matches with what we have learned about and what we should see. When we were discussing sets of equivalent protons, we figured out that we should see four signals for one propanol because we have four sets of equivalent protons. We have this set here, this set here, this set here, and, finally, this set here. Do we see four signals in our NMR spectrum? Yes, we do! One, two, three, and four! Each of these signals corresponds to one set in our molecule. Can we begin assigning which signals belong to which set using integration? Well, let's think about it. Let us look at the signal farthest right. This has an integration of three. Do any of our sets of protons contain three protons?
The answer is yes. The purple protons contain three protons. Therefore this signal corresponds to this set of protons here. What about this signal here? that integrates for one. What set does that belong to? It has to belong to the orange set because the orange set is the only set that contains only one proton. Okay, that's not so bad, we've begun seeing how the NMR spectrum lines up with the molecule structure. What about these last two signals? unfortunately we can't identify these just yet. Both of these signals have an integration of two. The remaining sets of protons both contain two protons. We're going to need more information before assigning each of these signals to a particular set. A tool that can help us do that is what is called chemical shift. The x axis of an NRM spectrum is measured in chemical shift, usually represented by the greek letter delta with the units being ppm. PPM stands for parts per million. Why use such a strange unit? The reason we use ppm instead of other units such as hertz is because NMR spectrometers come in various strengths. It would be very inconvenient to have to use a different unit for every different strength of spectrometer. By using ppm, we allow all NMR spectra to use the same units regardless of the strength of the spectrometer. To calculate ppm, we take the energy of the signal we measured from the NMR experiment, which is measured using frequency, the unit for which is hertz. Then we divide it by the strength of the spectrometer, which is measured in mega hertz. Look at these units. Hertz over mega hertz. One over a million. That's where the parts per million unit comes from. Some terminology before we continue. When interpreting NMR spectra, we often have to compare signals to each other. When we do so, we don't use the terms left or right. Instead we use the terms upfield and downfield. For example if I am looking at this signal here, and comparing it to this signal to its right, this signal is downfield of the signal at lower ppm value. In contrast, this signal is upfield of the signal at a higher ppm value. Which you can see here. Farthest upfield we have hydrogen atoms attached to carbons which are not near electron withdrawing groups. We will define what electron withdrawing groups are in a few slides. For now, just know the term and know that electron withdrawing groups tend to be functional groups that contain heteroatoms such as oxygen and nitrogen. If we begin to move downfield, we find hydrogen atoms that are near heteroatoms such as oxygen or nitrogen. Not all electron withdrawing groups are equivalent. Carbonyls for example are electron withdrawing, but they are not strongly electron withdrawing. As a result, hydrogen atoms near a carbonyl, notice how I'm saying near not a attached to, you will see in a little bit how hydrogen atoms attached to an aldehyde or attached to a carboxylic acid are very far downfield, but for normal hydrogen atoms that are near a carbonyl, those tend to be around 2 to 2.5 ppm because a carbonyl is not a strong electron withdrawing group. In contrast, hydrogen atoms near say an alcohol or an amine tend to be farther downfield from 3 to 4 ppm. We continue moving downfield, we find hydrogen atoms attached to alkenes, hydrogen atoms attached to aromatic rings, of which a phenyl ring is a common example. And finally, farthest downfield we have hydrogen atoms are a part of an aldehyde or part of a carboxylic acid. You may have noticed that these number ranges do not exactly match the numbers you see in the spectra data tables on the cover of your laboratory manual, which you can also find on the compass 2g course website. The values in those tables have been distilled to this simple image, which has divided the proton NMR spectrum into whole numbers and half numbers for your convenience. You are expected to memorize these regions. An important note before we continue, these regions are not hard barriers. It is possible for an alkene proton to appear above 6.5 ppm. It depends on what exactly is around that proton. That being said, these values for regions you see here are good rules of thumb for most spectroscopy problems. Just remember that overlap between regions is possible. Now that we have discussed at what chemical shift different types of protons appear at in a proton NMR spectrum, we are going to discuss why these different types of protons appear in these specific chemical shift. What makes a hydrogen atom not near an electron withdrawing group so different from a hydrogen atom that is near an electron withdrawing group?
This has to do with the concept called shielding. A nucleus with more electron density is what we call shielded. And shielded signals appear upfield. What do we mean by shielded? We'll talk about what shielded means on the next slide. In contrast. A nucleus with less electron density is deshielded, and will therefore appear down-field. Lets look at 1-propanol here on the left. Lets consider this proton here in blue. Is this proton shielded or deshielded? Remember if you are shielded you have more electron density. How much electron density does this proton have? Notice that it is quite close to this oxygen. Oxygen is electronegative. That means oxygen will pull electron density towards it. It is what we call an electron withdrawing group. That means this proton is losing electron density. This proton is deshielded. Lets go next door to this proton. Is this shielded or deshielded? The oxygen is pulling electron density from this proton in the middle. However, because this proton is farther away it is not losing as much electron density. As a result, it is more shielded than the first proton. But still it is slightly deshielded. This is all about comparisons here. Let's look at this final proton on the left. Is this shielded or deshielded? This proton is very far away from this electronegative oxygen. Therefore, if this proton is losing electron density, it is losing only a very small amount of it. Therefore, this proton on the left is the most shielded of all of these. Because this proton on the left is most shielded, it will appear furthest upfield. Because this proton on the right is the most deshielded, it will appear the furthest downfield. What about this proton that is part of the alcohol? It's directly attached to that oxygen. Doesn't that mean it should appear farthest downfield of all of these? This proton is attached to an oxygen. Therefore it is a labile proton. And labile protons tend to not follow all the rules that other protons do. This labile proton can appear in a large range on the NMR spectrum. And it's very difficult to predict where it will appear exactly. In the NMR spectrum for 1-propanol, you've seen that signals have appeared at particular values on the x-axis. Where do those values come from? They result from a comparison to a standard. Remember how we standardized NMR spectra by using ppm as our unit for chemical shift. To decide whether a signals appears at 3 ppm or 9 ppm or 1 ppm, we make another comparison. Tetramethylsilane, or TMS for short, is a universal NMR standard. The hydrogen atoms in TMS are very shielded. As a result, most protons signals in an NMR spectrum will appear down-field of TMS. So what we do to make NMR spectroscopy analysis easier is make the signals in TMS equal to zero and compare everything to that. If you see an NMR signal at 1 ppm, that means that signal is 1 ppm down-field of TMS. What causes this shielding effect? Why does the presence of electron density affect the chemical shift of our signals? In this diagram, I have a nuclei here as shown by this arrow and the electron density around this nuclei is represented by this blue sphere. Remember that electrons are charged, and that these electrons are spinning. Because electrons are charged and spinning, they generate a magnetic field. It turns out, the magnetic field generated by the spinning electrons shown here by the green arrow, is pointed in the opposite direction of the magnetic field we apply in an NMR experiment. Because the magnetic field applied by the electrons is in the opposite direction of the applied magnetic field, it cancels out some of the applied magnetic field. And makes the applied magnetic field weaker. This means that the nuclei feels less of the magnetic field. It is shielded from the applied magnetic field. Therefore, it appears upfield in an NMR spectrum. In contrast, if I had little electron density, I would have a smaller electron magnetic field, which would cancel out less of the applied magnetic field. That means nuclei will be less shielded and would appear down-field. This explains why hydrogen atoms near electron withdrawing groups are further down-field than hydrogens not near electron withdrawing groups. However, if you recall the general chemical shift tables from a while back, you know that alkenes and aromatic protons are even further downfield. Yet those don't have any electron withdrawing groups. This has to do with an idea called anisotropy. We will not discuss anisotropy in this course. Simply know that it exists and explains why hydrogen atoms are part of alkenes and aromatic rings appear farther down-field than hydrogen atoms near electron withdrawing groups. How can we use chemical shift to our advantage? Previously, we had assigned several of our sets of protons, we know that the purple protons belong to this signal on the right.
Let's look at the blue protons. The blue protons are closer to the Oxygen than the red protons are. That means the blue protons should be less shielded than the red protons. If the blue protons are less shielded they should appear further downfield. Which of these two unassigned signals is further downfield? The one on the left. Therefore this signal should correspond to the blue protons. In contrast, the red protons are farther away from this oxygen. That means the red protons are more shielded therefore they should appear further upfield. Which means, this signal further upfield belongs to the red protons, and we already know what signal the purple protons belong to we could use the same logic here. The purple protons are farthest away from the oxygen therefore they are the most shielded and should appear farthest upfield, and they do. If you go back and look at the table of general ranges that I expected you to memorize you'll see how these signals fit into those general ranges. One final topic before we finish this webcast. Spin-Spin Coupling. As you may have noticed signals in spectra often appear as multiple peaks. This signal on the left has 6-peaks. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 6...and the signal on the right has three peaks. The number of peaks that belong to each signal indicates a number of neighboring or adjacent hydrogen's. The number of peaks present is called the 'multiplicity' of the signal. If you see 1-peak in a signal that is called a 'singlet'. If you see 2-peaks that is called a 'doublet'. When I ask for the multiplicity of a signal this is what I am asking for, how many peaks are present. What's the multiplicity of this signal? It has 1, 2, 3-peaks, therefore this would be called a 'triplet'. What about the signal on the left? There are 6-peaks therefore that would be called a 'sextet'. Before continuing one quick note on 'multiplet'. In this course your NMR Spectra should be what an Organic Chemist would call 'clean'. They will be easy to interpret. I would not expect to see many complex NMR signals that you would have to call multiplets because there are no clear pattern's. Where does this splitting come from? Why do signals appear as multiple peaks? It is because the magnetic field of a proton is affected by the magnetic fields of it's neighbors. For example, consider this molecule where we have proton A and proton B. If we consider proton A it has a magnetic field which points up, or points down. Proton B has a magnetic field which can also point up or point down. this means it can be aligned with A in other words pointing in the same direction or it can be aligned against A pointing in the opposite direction. Depending on which it is proton A is either more shielded or more deshielded. Think back to what we talked about when discussing the shielding effects of electron's. the magnetic field of spinning electron's cancelled out some of the magnetic field we apply because of the magnetic field of the electrons was opposite the applied magnetic field. it is the same thing here. If Hb points in the same direction it creates more shielding. If Hb points in the opposite direction it creates deshielding. Of course, this works both ways. If Hb effects or what we call 'splits' Ha then Ha also has to effect or 'split' Hb. What's the consequence of this? If Ha is all on it's own we would expect to see a signal with one peak. However, once we consider Hb we instead get two peaks. One of these peaks results from Hb increasing the shielding of Ha and one of these peaks results from Hb deshielding Ha. This is why we would see a doublet here. How close does a proton have to be to split another proton? Typically, although there are exceptions only vicinal protons, in other words, protons that are on adjacent carbons will split each other. Here Ha and Hb are vicinal. They are on adjacent carbons therefore they split each other. As you might expect, Labile protons tend to not follow this rule. Usually Labile protons do not cause splitting and are not split themselves, even if they are vicinal to other protons.
Now that we understand where splitting comes from how do we know how many peaks a signal should appear as? To make this prediction, you use the n+1 rule. If hydrogen A has some number of neighboring equivalent hydrogens, which we are gonna designate it by n, the number of peaks in A's signal is n+1. For example, if there are no neighbors then I would see only one peak in my signal, a singlet. If I had one neighbor, like I saw on the previous slide, I should see two peaks, a doublet, where 1+1 is 2. You can use this equation in reverse as well. If I have a quartet, four peaks, I know that the protons in that signal must have three neighbors. Let's see if that n+1 rule matches what we see in the spectrum for 1-propanol. Let's look at the purple protons first. How many neighbors do the purple protons have? Well, let's look at the vicinal carbon, the next door carbon. How many protons are attached to this carbon? One... two. The n+1 rule says there should be 2+1 peaks, three total. Does this signal correspond to the purple proton show up as a triplet? Yes it does. Now let's look at the red protons. How many neighbors does the red protons have? Well we have to look to all vicinal carbons. Is the vicinal carbon to the left and the vicinal carbon to the right. So you have to count all of the protons on those carbons. We have one, two, three, four, five. So the n+1 rule... says I should see 5+1, six peaks, a sextet. Does the signal correspond to the red proton show up as a sextet? Yes it does. Now lets look at the blue protons. I have a vicinal carbon to the left, which has two protons. What about this proton to the right? Does that split our blue protons as well? No... because this is a labile proton. Labile protons do not cause splitting. That means the blue protons have only two neighbors, which means I should see... a triplet. Do they show up as a triplet? Yes they do. One final note, notice how the labile proton shows up only as a singlet because it is not split by any adjacent protons. To recap what we have discussed in this webcast. Proton NMR spectroscopy allow us to learn a great deal about the structure of a molecule. The numbers of signal we see tells us the number of different protons present in a molecule. The integration of each signal tells us the number of protons that contribute to that signal. The chemical shift to that signal gives us information about what kind of protons are present? And finally, splitting provides the information about the number of adjacent protons.
Compound Characterization: Proton Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy Spectra Interpretation Part II. In the previous webcast, we discussed how you can pull a great deal of information out of a proton NMR spectrum. Examples include chemical shift, integration, and multiplicity. In this webcast we will discuss the final piece of information you can pull out of a proton NMR spectrum: Coupling constants, also known as J couplets. A coupling constant, or a J constant or a J value, is the distance between peaks in an NMR signal. This distance must be measured in Hz. It is a quantitative measurement of the magnetic influence of neighboring hydrogens. For example, if a neighboring hydrogen has a large amount of magnetic influence, then you should expect a correspondingly large coupling constant. This J value is independent of the strength of the spectrometer. This is why it is measured in Hz. In the same way that splitting is reciprocal, the J value for the splitting must also be reciprocol. If Ha splitting Hb has some coupling constant, Hb splitting Ha must have the same coupling constant. Let us look at these proton NMR signals at the bottom of the slide. Here we see that in these particular signals, we have these numbers, these values, above each of these peaks in the signals. These values correspond to the exact ppm value of each peak. To calculate the J value, based on this definition up here, the distance between the peaks, you might think that this will be as simple as taking value one and subtracting value two. However, there is a caveat here. What you need to remember is that this value must be measured in Hz, where these values are all in parts per million. How do we convert parts per million into Hz? We'll discuss this on the next slide. Before continuing, one note: for this course, when we talk about coupling constants, we are talking specifically about what are called simple first order coupling constants. Simple first order coupling produces proton NMR signals of the kind that you have been shown. There are situations where peak splitting does not produce these types of clean signals. For this course you do not have to worry about these more complex types of signals. Now, a demonstration on how to calculate simple J values. Here in the upper left we have the molecular structure for diethyl ether. These proton NMR signals you see correspond to the protons in diethyl ether. In the interest of getting more practice, you may wish to spend some more time figuring out which signals correspond to what protons in the structure after the end of this webcast. If I want to calculate the J values for these signals, I have to be able to convert these ppm values to Hz values. How do we do that? The first thing we have to know is what is the strength of our spectrometer. In this example, these signals were taken in a spectrometer with the strength of 500 MHz. Now, remember that ppm is calculated by taking the chemical shift of the peak in Hz and dividing it by the strength of the spectrometer, which is measured in MHz, or to give us ppm as our chemical shift. If I want to take the chemical shift of a peak in ppm and convert it back into Hz, all I need to do is take my chemical shift in ppm and multiply it by the frequency of the spectrometer instrument. Knowing this information, let's calculate the J value for this triplet on the left. It is important to know that the J value for a signal is independent of which two peaks you decide to use to calculate it. For example, in this triplet, I could take this distance between peaks from the left-most peak to the middle peak, or I could take the distance from the middle peak to the right peak. Either distance will give me the same J value. Let's say I decide to use this distance on the right. What I could do is take this value, plug it into this equation, and calculate the shift in Hz, take the second value do the same thing, and then subtract the two values. That is a perfectly valid way to calculate the J value. What I prefer to do is instead of converting each of these signals into Hz individually, if you subtract them and then convert them into Hz. Let me show you that process now. That is the chemical shift of my middle peak in ppm. Now I shall subtract the chemical shift of the right peak in ppm.
And that gives me the difference in chemical shift in ppm. Now I wish to convert this into Hertz, I simply multiply this by the strength of the spectrometer, which gives me a value of 5.81 Hz. When talking about J-values, you always round to the tenths place. This means that the J-value the coupling constant for this triplet is 5.8 Hz. Let's do the same thing for this quartet on the right. I shall again pick the two right most peaks. Remember, it doesn't matter which two peaks I select. Either distance between adjacent peaks should give us the same J-value. Do the same calculation. That's my difference in chemical shift in ppm. Now, let's convert it into Hertz by multiplying by the strength of the spectrometer to give me a coupling constant of 5.8 Hz. Again, round it to the tenth place. Notice how these values are identical. This is because coupling constants are reciprocal. If these two signals result from protons splitting each other, they must have the same coupling constant. In this case, that should make sense because these protons on the methylene and these protons on the methyl must be splitting each other they must possess the same J-value. Now, let's say you selected a different distance. For example, if you look at this triplet on the left, what if instead we selected the left most peak and the middle peak. What J-value will we calculate there? What I told you is that we should obtain the same J-value. But, if you use these numbers on the screen you would instead see a J-value equal to 6.0 Hz. Why is that? These chemical shift values are given to us by computer. How accurately the computer is able to measure the middle of each of these peaks determines how accurate our calculated J-values are. So what happens if the J-value you calculate is different than the J-value I calculate because I selected a different distance? Your answer will still be acceptable. So long as your answer is within the threshold, say plus or minus 0.2 Hz, your answer is fine. Those values are about the same and any difference is a result of the numbers given to you by the computer. Now for some practice. Go ahead and calculate the coupling constant for this signal here. Remember that these values in blue up top are measured in ppm. Pause the video and calculate the J-value the coupling constant for this sextet. Welcome back. Let's see how you did. For this signal, I'm selecting the middle two peaks. This is not a requirement, you can select any two peaks that are adjacent to each other. I just happened to be selecting the middle two. Do some calculations and get the difference in ppm. And then multiply by the strength of the spectrometer which this time is 600 MHz. Make sure you pay attention to the values the problem gives you to get a value of 7.9 Hz. Now your value might be slightly different. Your different might be a little bit more or it might be a little bit less. So long as you selected two peaks that were adjacent to each other and used the values given to you by the problem your answer is acceptable. What makes this useful as a tool to us? Remember J-values are reciprocal. That means that if you have two signals that have the same J-value, you know that the protons belonging to those signals must be adjacent to each other. You learned about connectivity this way. Before finishing this webcast, we have to talk about something that was glossed over in the previous one. In the previous webcast, we discussed why two protons that are next door to each other split each other. When trying to predict how many peaks each A should possess, we learned about the n+ 1 rule. Where if we have a hydrogen that has n number of neighboring equivalent hydrogens the number of peaks is n+ 1. There was a word in this that I didn't discuss last webcast. That word is equivalent. In most cases for aliphatic protons, the equivalent portion of this definition is not relevant. Unfortunately, not all protons are simply aliphatic protons.
consider a situation where we have two protons, Hb and Hc, splitting proton a. now consider what would happen if Hb and Hc are different types of protons. what should we see for the signal for Ha? if Hb and Hc did not interfere with Ha, we would expect to see a singlet, one signal. of course, we know that's not true. we know that Hb and Hc will affect Ha somehow. on the previous slide, we were reminded of how when Hb interacts with Ha we should we a doublet. now, what happens when we include Hc in this scenario? we know that, like Hb, Hc can either be aligned with the magnetic field of Ha or opposed to the magnetic field of Ha. Therefore, we should see splitting similar to what Hb preformed. well, we already have two peaks so, what should that splitting look like? you would see something that looks like this. where each of these peaks resulting from Ha splitting with Hb are now split by Hc producing a pair of doublets or what we call a doublet of doublets. an example that would cause this type of situation can be seen here in the middle. if you look at this green proton, you can call that Ha. if this green proton is Ha, it is being split by this blue proton and this purple proton, which are not the same. Therefore, this green proton would show up as a doublet of doublets. If you look at 1-propanol, our example from the proton nmr webcast part one, we saw that we had different sets of equivalent hydrogens. yet, for these red protons here, we didn't see a complicated splitting pattern that resulted multiple j-values. why is that? this is because for most aliphatic protons, even if they are non equivalent such as the purple and the blue protons, the coupling constants are close enough that we don't see this type of splitting. therefore, the n+1 rule still works for simple aliphatic protons. how can you, the student, figure out whether to use the n+1 rule or to be on the lookout for multiple j-values? i will inform you if multiple j-values are present. for this course, you simply need to be aware that nonequivalent protons can give different coupling constants resulting in more complex splitting patterns. our last topic for this webcast will be on how we can use these j-values, these coupling constants, to tell us something about the structure of the molecule. we already know that if signals have identical j-values, they have to be splitting each other. you can also use the numerical value of there coupling constants to tell us the orientation of some protons. if you look here in this blue box, we have two protons in various orientations. these orientations are shown via newman projections. in a newman projection, we are looking straight down a bond. this intersection here represents the front carbon we are looking down and the circle represents the second carbon of the bond we are looking down. the angle between these various bonds is called the dihedral angle. if you look at these two protons, our dihedral angle is 180 degrees. if you look at the middle structure where we have simply rotated this proton to a new position, our new dihedral angle is 60 degrees. if i rotate this proton again, it is now at 0 degrees. the dihedral angle between protons is important because the dihedral angle determines the strength of the coupling. if you look at the table below, we see a number of protons at different orientations and the resulting coupling constants between those two protons. the greatest value of these coupling constants is if we know something about the structure of the molecule already. if you look at the bottom of this table, we have proton a and proton b on the same carbon of an alkene, on different carbons of the alkene but on opposite sides of the double bond, what we call trans, or on different carbons of the alkene but on the same side of the double bond, what we call cis. you see how each orientation has a different coupling constant value range. if we know we have two protons that are part of the same alkene, we can know whether they are on the same carbon, they are trans or they are cis simply by looking at which range their coupling constant falls into. do not memorize these values. if they are needed they will be provided to you but do know how to use them. to recap this webcast, the coupling constant or the j-value of a signal is a measurement of the strength of the interaction between two nuclei. this value is calculated using the distance between peaks in a proton nmr signal and the strength of the instrument used to generate those signals. j-values are reciprocal. two protons splitting each other must have the same j-value. it is possible for signals to have more than one j-value. this occurs when a proton is being split by two significantly different types of protons. and finally, the dihedral angle between protons on adjacent carbons determines the strength of a coupling value and you can use those values to try and identify the relative positions and orientations of the two protons.
Previously we discussed what proton NMR is, and what it does for us in terms of determining the structure of molecules. This slide summarizes the information NMR can provide us. When discussing proton NMR we use the proton NMR for 1-propanol which can be seen here to demonstrate these ideas. Carbon 13 NMR provides some of the same information to us but for carbons instead. Carbon 13 NMR tells us the number of unique sets of carbons in the molecule via the number of singles in the spectrum, very similar to proton NMR, and finally it gives us some information about what kinds of carbons are in the molecule and the presence of functional groups via chemical shift. On this slide we see the Carbon 13 spectrum of 1-propanol. As you can see this is similar to a proton NMR spectrum where we have distinct signals, and these signals are present at different chemical shifts. You may also have noticed some differences, for example, there is no splitting in these signals. We are now going to discuss how proton and Carbon 13 NMR are similar and how are they different. Like a proton, Carbon 13 has a nuclei spin of 1/2, as a result we can see Carbon 13 nuclei in an NMR spectrum. unlike protons where most protons are H1 the NMR active nuclei of Carbon 13 is not the most abundant isotope. In fact, less than 1 percent of all carbon is Carbon 13. the consequence of having little Carbon 13 is we get weaker signals during an experiment. As a result, Carbon 13 experiments often require more time to get data of quality similar to a proton NMR. Fortunately for us Carbon 13 resonates, or absorbs energy at a different frequency than protons do. This means that a proton NMR tells us only about protons and carbon NMR tells us only about carbons. Like in proton NMR the number of signals in a Carbon 13 NMR tells us how many sets of equivalent carbons are present. However, because Carbon 13 is not very abundant the integration of a Carbon 13 signal is unreliable, it can be done, but it is often not done. Like in proton NMR where the presence of functional groups effect the chemical shifts of nearby protons, in Carbon 13 NMR the presence of nearby functional groups will effect the chemical shift of carbon signals. One caveat to remember however, in a proton NMR your general ppm range for chemical shift is from 0-14 in a carbon NMR your chemical shift range is much higher 0-220. Finally Carbon 13 experiments are designed to decouple Carbon 13 nuclei from proton nuclei. Because both of these nuclei have the same spin quantum number they could split each other. A Carbon 13 experiment is designed to decouple the two nuclei, or in other words prevent them from splitting them from splitting each other. The practical consequence of this is that in a Carbon 13 NMR you do not see any multiplicity, which means you see no coupling constants. This explains why we don't see coupling between protons and carbons. What about coupling between Carbon 13 atoms and other Carbon 13 atoms? Answer is that we would except the abundance of Carbon 13 is quite low. the odds of two Carbon 13 atoms being next to each other in a molecule is quite low, as a result we do not see Carbon 13 atoms splitting adjacent Carbon 13 atoms. The take home message here is that in a Carbon 13 NMR the only pieces of information you are concerned about pulling out of it is the number of sets of equivalent carbons and the chemical shift of the singles in your NMR spectrum. The number of sets of NMR carbons are determined the same way that is was done in proton NMR. If you can take a bond a rotate it to swap carbons to get the same molecule back those carbons are equivalent. Similarly, if you take a molecule and you can flip it and get the same structure back because of molecular symmetry those carbons are also equivalent. Each signal corresponds to a set of equivalent carbons. The chemical shift of carbon signals follows similar trends that you saw in proton NMR. Let's show that now.
Chemical shift ranges you can find in the same location. I don't expect you to memorize this entire table. Instead I expect you to memorize a set of important ranges, which you can see here. At the top I have included the general chemical shift ranges for proton NMR that we discussed in the proton NMR webcast. On the bottom we have the chemical shift ranges for Carbon 13 NMR that I expect you to memorize. You will notice that in contrast to the proton NMR ranges there are only three regions for a Carbon 13 NMR. Roughly from 0-90 ppm we have the aliphatic region where carbon is not near an electron withdrawing group (EWG) and carbons near electron withdrawing groups are located. From 90-170 ppm we have alkene carbons and aromatic carbons, and then beyond 170 ppm we have carbonyls. YYou will notice that the trend for Carbon 13 NMR is exactly the same as the trend for proton NMR, the key difference is the ppm value of the chemical shifts. Why are there fewer ranges in a carbon 13 NMR? This is because there is significantly more overlap in Carbon 13 NMR than there is in the proton NMR. In Carbon 13 NMR it is generally true that carbons near electron withdrawing groups will be farther downfield than carbons not near electron withdrawing groups. Similarly, in Carbon 13 NMR it is often true that carbon atoms in an aromatic ring will be farther downfield than carbon atoms in an alkene. However, these will not always be true. There is much more overlap in a Carbon 13 spectrum, so you have to be more careful using chemical shifting using Carbon 13 NMR than you would interpreting a proton NMR. Using this new knowledge lets go ahead and assign the carbons in the structure of 1-propanol to the signals we see in this carbon 13 spectrum for 1-propanol. Look at the carbon furthest from the right circled in purple, now you see that that carbon is very close to this electron withdrawing alcohol. That means that this carbon should be very deshielded, therefore should be further downfield. That means this purple carbon should belong to this signal here. To further drive home the point that there is no splitting in a carbon spectrum I have zoomed in on this signal here. Even when zoomed in we see only one peak. There is no splitting in a Carbon 13 NMR spectrum. Now lets look at this next door carbon. That's close to the alcohol but not that close, therefore it should be some what downfield not very downfield. That carbon should belong to this signal here. Look at this last carbon circled in blue, that is the furthest away from the alcohol therefore it should be the most shielded, and therefore should appear furthest upfield, it belongs to that carbon. As you can see, analysis of carbon NMR is much simpler than proton NMR. There is no integration, and there is no splitting. All that is left is chemical shift analysis and the number of signal's analysis, and fortunately the trends for chemical shift in a Carbon 13 NMR spectrum are the same as the trends in chemical shift for a proton NMR spectrum. The values will be different, but the trends are the same where the most shielded is upfield and the least shielded is downfield. To recap this webcast, Carbon 13 NMR spectroscopy allows us to learn about the structure of a molecule, in this case we are learning about the carbon atoms. The number of signals in a Carbon 13 NMR spectrum tells us the number of equivalent sets of carbons and the chemical shift of those signals gives us information about what kinds of carbons are in the molecule and the presence of functional groups. The trends for chemical shift in a Carbon 13 NMR are the same as the trends in chemical shift for a proton NMR, more shielded more upfield, less shielded more downfield. However, there is much more overlap in the potential chemical shift ranges for particular carbons. For example, the range for alkene carbons and the range for aromatic carbons possess significant overlap, therefore it is harder to identify what types of carbons are present based on the chemical shift, although you could still narrow the possibilities. Now we are going to work through some example Carbon 13 NMR spectrum problems. Up until this point the NMR spectra you have seen have been what an Organic Chemist would call clean. That means the signals you saw corresponded only to the molecule you were analyzing. In reality NMR spectra are not always so clean. Common signals you might see in a NMR spectrum that don't belong to your molecule, are signals corresponding to the NMR solvent. For example, in proton NMR you will often see a signal corresponding to Chloroform at 7.2 ppm and/or a signal corresponding to TMS at 0.0 ppm. Some of you may be thinking 'How can we see a Chloroform peak if we are using deuterated chloroform (CDCL3)?' Unfortunately in a bottle of deuterated chloroform not every molecule of chloroform is successfully deuterated, so there's always a little bit of CHCL3 as in impurity, which we see in the NMR spectrum. In Carbon 13 NMR the most common signal you see that doesn't belong to your molecule again belongs to chloroform, this time the carbon in chloroform, that usually appears at about 77 ppm and does so as a triplet. You'll see some examples of this in these example problems. Here we have a molecule of cyclopentanol, pause the video and predict how many signals in the Carbon 13 NMR we should see, and the chemical shifts of those signals.
Welcome back, lets see how you did. The first thing to recognize about this molecule is: it is symmetric. Right down the middle. How we identify identical sets of carbons is the same way to identify identical sets of protons. These two carbons up top are equivalent because I can simply flip this molecule and swap those carbon positions and get the same structure. Similarly, the carbons in the bottom are equivalent because if I again flip the molecule, i swap those positions and get the same molecule back. However, I'm not done. There is another carbon in this molecule. The carbon that is part of the carbonyl. In proton NMR, we often didn't look at carbonyls because they usually didn't have protons attached to them. In a carbon NMR however, we cannot forget carbonyls because those carbonyls have carbons in them. Now lets predict our chemical shifts. Carbonyls can appear over a wide ppm range. but I do know that they appear very far downfield. I shall predict somewhere in the range of 200ppm. In reality it may be a little bit more, it may be a little bit less, but it will be somewhere that far downfield. Now lets look at the carbons adjacent to that carbonyl. The carbonyl is electron withdrawing, but it's not that electron withdrawing. Therefore, I would predict somewhere around 40ppm. And finally, the blue protons being very far away from the carbonyl should be pretty far upfield. Therefore, I predict somewhere around 20ppm. If your number predictions don't match my number predictions, that's okay because remember all these values are approximate ranges. So long as you're in the ballpark, you're thinking about this the right way. Now let us see how good our predictions were. I predicted the carbonyl to be around 200ppm and I see the signal there corresponding to the carbonyl at what appears to be about 220ppm. so not that close, but in the right area. If we now look at the red carbons, I predicted somewhere at around 40ppm I see a signal at 38ppms, so that one actually not to bad. That's pretty close. And for the blue carbons, I predicted 20ppm. in reality, it's at about 20ppm. Again, not bad. And there we go, identifying the types of carbons present in the structure and their proximity to any nearby electron withdrawing groups, we were able to predict with some accuracy, the chemical shifts those carbons would appear at in the carbon 13 NMR spectrum. We also saw how identifying equivalent sets of carbons is the same as identifying equivalent sets of protons. One note before we go, if you look down here at around 77ppm, we see 3 peaks. This signal corresponds to the NMR solvent, chloroform. Don't mistake this signal for belonging to your compound if you see it. One more exercise before we finish. Like before, predict how many signals we should see in the carbon 13 NMR spectrum and their chemical shifts. Pause the video, take a few minutes to make your predictions, and then come back. Welcome back, let's see how you did. Like before, I'm going to be on the look out for symmetry. and here I do see some symmetry. I see these carbons all attached to the same carbon, therefore they should be equivalent. Theses aren't the only carbons present, however, we also have this carbon in the middle. When talking about proton NMR, we didn't care about that carbon because it didn't have any protons attached to it. But in carbon 13 NMR, it is present, it will appear in the NMR spectrum so we have to remember that it is there. Now lets predict some chemical shifts. That red carbon is very close to that alcohol, therefore it should be pretty deshielded. I predict somewhere in the region of 70ppm. Purple carbons are a little further away, I predict them to be slightly deshielded lets say about 30ppm. Again, if your predictions values don't match mine exactly, that's okay. So long as you're in the same range. Lets see how good our predictions were. For the purple carbons, I should see a signal at roughly 30ppm. And I do see a signal at roughly that ppm range. Excellent. How about the red carbon? I expected it at roughly 70ppm, I see a signal at roughly 70ppm. Another very good prediction. The take home message here is that the chemical shift trends you learned in proton NMR apply to the chemical shifts in carbon 13 NMR. There more shielded you are, the more upfield you are. The more deshielded you are, the more downfield...
Before we begin solving our first full spectroscopy problem we need one more tool in our toolbox. The degrees of unsaturation of a compound is a very quick piece of information to learn about a molecule but also very important. In order to fill octets, a molecule must possess a certain ratios of carbons, hydrogens, and heteroatoms. Different ratios of these atoms will result from the presence or absence of pi bonds and/or rings. The degrees of unsaturation of a molecule will tell us how many pi bonds or rings are present in a molecule. To calculate your degrees of unsaturation, you take the number of carbons in your molecules and multiply that by 2, then add 2 to that value and then you subtract the number of hydrogens in your molecule, add the number of nitrogen atoms in your molecule and then subtract the number of halogens in your molecule, where x here stands for halogen. You then take all of that and divide that by 2. A simple mathematical process but an important one. Do not memorize the equation. If you need it, it will be provided to you. Every degree of unsaturation corresponds to a multiple bond, a pi bond or a ring. Remember that a double bond is 1 pi bond. Therefore a double bond would correspond to one degree of unsaturation. A triple bond contains 2 pi bonds therefore it will contribute two degrees of unsaturation. Now that we know what the degrees of unsaturation of a molecule is, let's get some practice calculating it. On this slide is provided for you the molecular formula for some molecule. Pause the video and take a few minutes to calculate the degrees of unsaturation for this molecule. Welcome back, let's see how you did. We know that the degrees of unsaturation for a molecule calculated by taking the number carbon atoms in your molecule, multiplying it by 2, adding to it the value of 2, subtracting the number of hydrogen atoms in the molecule, adding a number of hydrogen atoms in the molecule, and then subtracting the number of halogens atoms, where halogens are fluorine, chlorine, bromine, and iodine. And taking all of that and dividing it by 2. We plug in the values from our molecular formula. We have 2 times the number 4 which is the number of carbons plus 2, minus the number of hydrogen atoms which is 6, plus the number of nitrogen atoms which is 1, minus the number of halogen atoms which is in this case is also 1 because we have one chlorine atom in our molecule. Take this and divide it by 2. We do some arithmetic and we find that this reduces down to 4 over 2 which is equal to the value of 2. So this molecule whatever it is has two degrees of unsaturation. What does that mean? That means we either...2 pi bonds or 2 rings or...1 pi bond and 1 ring. How do we know which scenario is the correct one? From just the degrees of unsaturation we don't. We have to use other spectroscopic information to help guide us there. But as a starting point this was an incredibly easy value to calculate and it gave us a great deal of information. If we were trying to solve the structure of this unknown molecule, our final structure has to fit one of these three possibilities. 2 pi bonds or 2 rings or 1 pi bond plus 1 ring. It cannot be anything else. That bring us to the end of the webcast. To recap, the degrees of unsaturation for a molecule tells you the number of pi-bonds and/or rings located in that molecule. To calculate the degrees of unsaturation for a molecule, you have to know the molecule formula. Either I have to give it to you or I give you a way to figure it out.
Solving spectroscopy problems. This webcast will hopefully give you some insight info how to take different types of spectra and use that spectra to determine the structure of an unknown compound. you start by first organizing your data. this means making use of tables. you'll be dealing with different types of spectra that give you different types of information and being able to organize the data in a way that makes sense will be crucial to success. Once you have the data organized and you begin interpreting it you must remember that each piece of your data must be consistant with all the other data at your disposal. for example, if you see a carbonyl stretch in your infrared spectrum, you must also see carbonyl signal in your carbon thirteen spectrum. remember solving spectroscopy problems is very much diagnosing a medical condition. you are taking the spare pieces of information and must come to a conclusion that is consistant will all those pieces of information. fortunately, some of the data you collect will be redundant. what this means is often there is no one correct way to solve a spectroscopy problem. it is entirely possible you could come to the same conclusion as the person next to you using a different logical route where both routes are equally valid. in a typical spectroscopy problem, you will be provided the molecular formula for the unknown molecule, in this case c5h10o, and a series of spectra. in this case, i have an ir spectra in the upper left, a 13C spectra in the upper right, and a proton nmr spectra at the bottom. this particular problem does not include a mass spectrum but you can imagine also being given mass spectra to interpret as well. this one slide contains a huge amount of information. so how do you begin trying to interpret these spectra and come up with an unknown structure? well you don't look at all of it all at once. to start with, lets look at the molecular formula and the infrared spectrum. the molecular formula allows us to calculate the degrees of unsaturation for the compound. lets remember that degrees of unsaturation is equal to two times the number of carbons plus two minus the number of hydrogens plus the number of nitrogen atoms minus the number of halogen atoms all over two. if we plug in out values, we see that we have two times five plus two minus ten all over two because we have no nitrogen atoms and we have no halogen atoms. do some arithmetic, we see that we have two over two or one degree of unsaturation. that means that we have one pi bond or one ring. now let us begin interpreting the ir spectrum. let us go through the regions in the ir spectrum as you were taught in the ir spectroscopy webcast. first, we know that anything in the fingerprint region is not to be interpreted so you can ignore everything on the right side there. now we start going to higher wave numbers. as we go from right to left, the first region we would encounter would be the carbon carbon double bond region, around 1650 wave numbers. do we see any stretches around 1650? no we don't so we do not have any carbon-carbon double bonds. the next region is for carbonyls at around 1700 wave numbers. do we see a stretch at around 1700 wave numbers? indeed we do. we have a carbonyl stretch at around 1700 wave numbers. lets start by making a table where the left side is the type of bond and the right side is the wave number. lets begin organizing our information. the next region would be at roughly 2200 which is where we would find any carbon-carbon triple bonds. do i see any carbon-carbon triple bond stretches? no i don't so we probably don't have a carbon-carbon triple bond. now lets look at 3000 wave numbers. at 3000 we would see c-h stretches. do we see any stretches here? yes we do. if i draw a line from 3000 we see that all of my c-h stretches are below 3000. therefore all of my c-h bonds in this molecule have carbons that are sp3 hybridized.
because I see nothing above 3000, I have no sp2 hybridized C-H bonds or sp hybridized C-H. Thats's pretty useful information to know. Finally, let's look in the 3500 area, do we see any major stretches here? Some of you are maybe thinking, ya, we see this here, and because this lump is so small, that's probably an N-H bond. Here is where you need to be careful. In this particular spectrum, this blob doesn't actually correspond to anything in our molecule, that blob corresponds to residual water in our sample. How would you, as a student know that? You would know that by the shape and the size. Remember, alcohols tend to be very broad and very tall, clearly not an O-H. It is very small, which is consistent with what you have seen for N-H's. However, the shape of this blob is not consistent with the N-H's you have seen. The N-H stretches you have seen have been either relatively short but broad 2 peak signals, or moderately strong, single peak signals. That's how I know this does not belong to my molecule and is likely just residual water. And there we go, you finished our analysis of the infrared spectrum. I note that I have a carbonyl somewhere in my molecule and all of my C-H bonds are sp3 hybridized carbon C-H bonds. Doesn't sound like much, but that gives us actually a great deal. For example, remember how we had only one degree of unsaturation, and that degrees of unsaturation correspond to either pi bonds or rings? We now know that this one degree of unsaturation corresponds to the carbonyl in our molecule. We know we have a carbonyl because we have a stretch that tells us we do. Carbonyls contain a pi bond, therefore the carbonyl is the source of our one degree of unsaturation. We now know that there are no rings in our molecule because we have no degrees of unsaturation left, and we have no other pi bonds in the molecule. We have done a very quick analysis here but we have learned a great deal from this very short analysis. Okay, so far we have calculated our degrees of unsaturation, which is a value of one and recorded that in our tables. In the IR spectrum, we have filled a table containing the major stretches in the IR spectrum. Now let's move on to interpreting the carbon 13 NMR. Before we start, let us note that we have three peaks here at roughly 77 ppm. Remember, that corresponds to chloroform, the NMR solvent, so it is not part of our molecule. Now let's start our interpretation. First, we're going to label these carbon signals. In this course, for consistency, we're going to label carbon signals using numbers, from left to right. So this signal on the left, is 1, and we go from left to right, we simply label those 2, 3, 4. Let's go ahead and start making a table. 1, 2, 3, 4. And now let's record the chemical shift of each of these signals. Look at carbon 1, that's between 210 and 220, it's probably about 213, doesn't have to be exact. Let's remember the units for this column are ppm. Let's look at carbon 2, and it looks to be, OHH, 42 ppm. Carbon 3 appears to be 27 ppm. And carbon 4, let's say 18 ppm. And that's it. That is the entire analysis of our carbon 13 spectrum. What has this analysis told us? Remember that a carbon 13 NMR tells us 2 things: tells us the number of equivalents of carbons, and it gives us some information about the types of carbons present and/or the presence of functional groups. Let's look at the number of signals we have. 1,2,3,4. Now let;s compare that number to the number of carbons in our molecular formula.
Five. I have 5 carbons in my molecular formula but only four signals in the carbon NMR. How is that possible. It's possible because of symmetry. Remember, a signal corresponds to a set of equivalent carbon atoms. That means one of these signals, 1,2,3, or 4, must contain two carbon atoms. Which one is it? In a proton NMR we would know via integration. Unfortunately, carbon 14 NMR does not integrate well. Now ets look at these chemical shifts, I have a signal at 213 ppm. I know that carbonyl carbons show up in that range That means I have a carbonyl somewhere in my molecule. And that's good because this is consistent with our conclusions from the IR spectrum analysis. We had a carbonyl stretch in the IR spectrum, we have a carbon 13 signal in the carbon 13 NMR, our data is consistent. What about these other chemical shifts. 42, 27, 18. Those are pretty far upfeild so that means we probably don't have any strong electron withdrawing groups in the molecule. That being said, signals 2 and 3 are slightly deshieleded. Do we know of any electron withdrawing groups that could be desheilding 2 and 3. Sure we do! The carbonyl. This tells me that carbons 2 and 3 are probably close to the carbonyl, maybe even directly attached to it. I don't know that for certain, but given the information we currently possess that's not a bad guess. Okay so we finished analyzing the carbon 13 spectrum. we now take this information, put it into our table if we've not already done so. Then we begin analyzing the proton NMR spectrum. Analyzing the proton NMR spectrum is likely to be the most time consuming portion of any spectroscopy problem.. This is because yo can pull out more information form a proton NMR spectrum then you can from the other types of spectra given to you. Let us begin by labeling our proton NMR signals. In this course for consistency we are going to label proton signals using letter, starting with A from left to right. Now that that's done, lets begin building our table. What pieces of information can we get out of a NMR spectrum. Like with the carbon, you can pull out chemical shift, Unlike the carbon, we can pull out integration and multiplicity and coupling constants, j-values. Lets go ahead and begin filling in these values by first looking at the chemical shifts of our signals. Lets look at signal A. It turns out I have a zoomed in picture of signal A and I can see that the middle of the signal is at about 2.55 ppm. If we look at signal B next that looks to be at about 2.05. Look at signal C, the middle looks to be at about -mm- 1.16 ppm. Great. Chemical shift is done, now lets move onto integration. Look at these values down below. Signal A has an integration of 1, signal B has an integration that rounds to 3 because 3 is the closes integer. And signal C has an integration of 6 because 6 is the closest integer, Okay, we're done there as well, now lets move onto multiplicity. How many peaks does signal A have? 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,7. That makes signal a a septet. Which is sept. for short. Look at signal B, I see only one peak therefore that's a singlet. S for short. And finally for signal C, we have 2 peaks therefore that's a doublet. D for short. Now lets looks at out J-values. Lets look at signal B, signal B has no splitting. Therefore signal B has no coupling constant, no J-value. A and C however so have splitting therefore they must have a coupling constant, a J-value. Lets look at signal A first, looking at the zoomed area for signal A, I'm going to pick the 2 leftmost peaks. You don't have to, you can pick any two adjacent peaks, but I'm going to pick the two left most peaks. I don't have to, you can pick any two adjacent peaks, but I'm going to pick these left two I'm not gong to show the arithmetic here, but if I take the difference in chemical shift between these two peaks and multiply it by the spectrometer, 500Mhz, the value I get is 6.4 Hz. If I do this same arithmetic for the doublet on the right, I get 6.4 Hz. Isn't that interesting? And there we go, we have pulled out all of the information we can from this proton NMR spectrum. We see that we have 3 sets of equivalent protons, .
And we've listed the chemical shifts of the signals, integration of those signals, the multiplicity of those signals, and the coupling constants of those signals. We're not going to do a full analysis here but what are some good things we can see from this data? From the chemical shifts of our protons, we see that all of our protons are relatively upfield. That means there are no strong electron withdrawing groups in our molecule. This is consistent with our carbon NMR ID. If we look at the integrations we see that we have integrations of 1, 3, and 6. We know that carbons cannot have more than 4 bonds, how can we have an integration of six? To get an integration of 6, you must have protons on different carbons that are chemically equivalent. Another indication of symmetry. We'll talk more about multiplicity on the next slide, but before we leave we should look at the coupling constants. Signal a and c have the same coupling constant, therefore they must be splitting each other. Therefore they must be adjacent to each other. We have now finished interpreting our proton NMR spectrum. We have taken the information from the spectrum and organized it into a table. Now lets see if we can take all the information we possess and turn it into a molecular structure. This slide contains all the data tables that we have created so far in this spectroscopy analysis. We have our molec formula and the associated degrees of unsaturation and the infrared stretches that we identified in the infrared spectrum, we have the chemical shifts of the carbon signals from the carbon 13 NMR spectrum, we have the data from the proton NMR spectrum that we did right now. How we can can take these disparate pieces of information and put them into a molecular structure. I'm going to show you one way to parse this data. There are likely dif ways you can analyze this data and come to the same conclusion. Don't think that you have to solve these types of problems the same way I am about to. I am simply giving a demonstration of how I solve these types of problems. First I know that I have a carbonyl. I know that this carbonyl takes care of our one degree of unsaturation. I also know that this carbonyl contains our only electronegative atom. Therefore this carbonyl is the only EWG in the molecule. Because the carbonyl is the only EWG in this molecule, the signals that are downfield in the proton and carbon spectra must be attached to this carbonyl. If we look specifically at the protons we see that signals A and B both have relatively downfield chemical shifts. That means that they are most likely adjacent to this carbonyl. Okay if we want to connect A and B to the carbonyl we have to know what A and B correspond to. Are the methines, methylenes, methyls? How can we figure out what they are? lets look at the other information we possess. We see that sig B is a singlet with an integration of 3. The integration of 3 tells me that B is probably methyl. The fact that it is a singlet tells me that this methyl is not adjacent to any other protons. This is a good indication that the methyl is probably directly connected to the carbonyl. Does all our data support this? We have a signal that is probably a methyl because it has an integration of 3. It is a singlet therefore it is not adjacent to any protons, and it is relatively downfield meaning it is probably next to our EWG carbonyl and that all matches our proposed partial structure. Lets look at signal A. Signal A has an integration of 1 and is a septet. An integration of 1 tells me that it is probably a methine which means it is connected to three things. Because the chemical shift is so far downfield it is probably connected to the carbonyl.
Doesn't tell us what else the methine is connected to. What are our options? The protons that are connected to signal c are the only ones left. Let's look at what types of protons those are. We see that we have an integration of 6. The multiplicity of that signal was a doublet. The integration of 6 tells me that this is probably two methyl groups because 2 times 3 would be 6. This could be three methelenes. However, if we look at our partial structure we've used three carbons out of the five available. That means there are only two carbons left. Therefore, this has to be two methyl groups and not three methelenes. If I attach those methyl groups to the methine, does all off my data make sense? Signal c is an integration of 6 that appears as a doublet. Would these protons that I've labeled in green be chemically equivalent? Yes they would, and would integrate to 6. Would they appear as a doublet? Yes they would, these protons are adjacent to only one proton, therefore they would appear as a doublet. Does the coupling constant make sense? C has a coupling constant of 6.4 therefore the coupling constant for this methine which is signal a should also be 6.4, and it is. A and C must be adjacent to each other because they have the same J value. And indeed they are adjacent to each other in this proposed structure. Does the chemical shift for c make sense? With a chemical shift of about 1 that means it's far away from any electron withdrawing groups, and indeed these methyls are far away from our electron withdrawing carbonyl. So the data for signal c matched our proposed structure. Let's go back a make sure it also matched our data for a and b. In our proposed structure signal b belongs to this methyl all on its own, and we've already shown how all of this data matches its proposed location. Let's look at signal a. For signal a, we've already talked about how the chemical shift matches, and the integration matched, and the coupling constant matches. What about the multiplicity? Signal a our methine is adjacent to 6 protons, therefor it should appear as a septet. Does it? Yes it does. This proposed structure is consistent with all of our proton NMR data. It was only one degree of unsaturation therefore it matches our degree of saturation value. The functional groups in our proposed structure match the information we got from the infrared spectrum. We have a carbonyl and all of our CH bonds contain sp3 hybridized carbons. What about the carbon NMR data. We have one carbonyl carbon that't present in our proposed structure. That's great. And we have three other carbon signal, bringing us to four carbon signals total. Does this proposed structure give us four carbon signals? Yes, this methyl would produce its own signal. This carbonyl would produce its own signal, the methine would produce its own signal, and these two methyls at the end because they're chemically equivalent would also produce their own signal. That is four carbon signal that we should see and four carbon signals in the carbon 13 NMR. Therefore I am confident that this molecular structure is our unknown structure. Hopefully this demonstration of how to solve a spectroscopy problem was helpful. In this demonstration I showed how to use each of these separate pieces of data to come up with a proposed chemical structure. I showed how each data was useful to determine something in particular about the chemical structure and how various pieces of data corroborated each other for example the carbonyl stretch in the in infrared spectrum was corroborated by the carbonyl signal in the carbon 13 NMR spectrum. Hopefully solving spectroscopy problems is now less intimidating. Don't be afraid of spectroscopy problems. Just ensure that you organize your data effectively. You saw how by taking all of this information and putting it them into tables, I was able to see patterns and connections within data sets and between data sets. How to effectively use this information will come with practice and with experience, but it always starts with proper organization of the data from the spectra. I would not be surprised if during this webcast if some of you saw certain connections before I spoke about them. There is no one way to work through a spectroscopy problem. In my case, I started with the degrees of unsaturation, went to the infrared spectrum and then briefly talked about the carbon NMR before moving on to the proton NMR data. Instead, you could have started from the proton NMR and then worked your way through these other types of data. So long as your final conclusion is supported by all of your data, you are doing well.
Thin Layer Chromatography- background. In this webcast we will discuss the first laboratory technique you will learn for this course. To begin we will start with what chromatography is, and then later delve more into what is Thin Layer Chromatography in terms of how it works. Chromatography is a technique that separates mixtures based on intermolecular interactions. In a chromatography experiment, compounds move between a stationary phase, and an immobile phase. The stationary phase, is as the name suggests, a fixed, nonmoving, usually a solid but it does not have to be material that is attached to some inert unreactive surface. The mobile phase again as the name suggests, is a moving phase. Which is a fluid, liquid or a gas that flows through the nonmoving stationary phase. often times this mobile phase is called the eluant when referring to a specific substance/composition. Now let's talk about how these intermolecular interactions are relevant in a chromatography experiment. Why do these intermolecular interactions allow us to separate mixtures? In a chromatography experiment, the molecules in your starting mixture are in contact with both the stationary and mobile phases simultaneously. Some of the molecules in your mixture may have strong interactions with the stationary phase. While some molecules in the mixture may have weak interactions in the stationary phase. This results in partitioning. The molecules that weakly interact with the stationary will not stick to the stationary phase very much. As a result they will spend a great deal of time in the mobile phase, and they will move quickly through the apparatus. In contrast, molecules that have a strong interaction with the stationary phase will stick well to the stationary phase, and will not spend much time in the mobile phase. Therefore they will move slowly through the apparatus. Here is a visual demonstration of a typical chromatography experiment. This green box represents our stationary phase. This is the non-moving phase which our compounds, which in this case are the red diamonds, and our yellow triangles, are placed onto and are interacting with. The blue circles represent our mobile phase. Remember that the mobile phase flows over or through our stationary phase. Shown here by the blue circles moving upward. In a chromatography experiment, some compounds may strongly interact with the stationary phase, and some may weakly interact with the stationary phase. Let us see whether our compound 1, the red diamond, or compound 2, the yellow triangles, interact with the stationary has with different strengths. Here we are again moving the mobile phase across the stationary phase and we can see that compound 1 has moved up the stationary phase. What this tells me is that compound 1 does not interact strongly with the stationary phase. Therefore it enters the mobile phase and moves across the stationary phase. Now this does not mean that compound 1 does not interact with the stationary phase at all. As you can see, compound 1 has returned the stationary phase. In contrast, compound 2 has not moved. This means compound 2 has strong interactions with the stationary phase. This does not compound 2 never moves. Let's do another cycle of our mobile phase. AS you can see both compound and compound 2 have moved across the stationary phase. However, they have moved at different rates. They have partitioned themselves. Compound 1 has weak interactions with the stationary phase, therefore it moves quickly across the stationary phase. Compound 2 has strong interactions with the stationary phase, therefore it moves slowly across the stationary phase, and this is how a chromatography experiment functions. Compounds in a mixture are separated based on the strength of the interaction they possess with the stationary phase. Now let's take those ideas and apply them to a particular type of chromatography. In this case we were discussing thin layer chromatography. Thin layer chromatography, like any other chromatography technique, has a stationary phase and a mobile phase. In thin layer chromatography, the stationary phase is a thin layer of adsorbent material fixed onto an inert surface. Remember that adsorbent means that substances will adhere to the surface of the material.
Here on the left, we see an example of a thin layer chromatography plate or TLC plate for short. The stationary phase on a TLC plate is this white substance you see coating this flat surface. You will talk more about the station in face in a TLC experiment the mobile phase is a solvent or mixture of solvents that is pulled across the stationary phase using capillary action. Here at the bottom of this jar is a small amount of organic solvent or a small amount of a mixture of organic solvents. When the bottom of this TLC plate is placed into the solvent, the solvent is slowly drawn up the plate via capillary action. The result of the mobile phase the eluent being drawn up the TLC plate with capillary action is as that eluent moves up the plate it carries analytes with it. These analytes are separated due to differences in attraction for the stationary phase. The stronger the attraction, the stronger the interactions with the stationary phase the less distance the analytes move. In contrast the weaker the attraction the analytes have of the stationary phase the weaker the interactions the farther they move up the plate. Let us look again at the this example TLC plate. Before the TLC experiment was performed, the bottom of the TLC plate here, was placed a spot of black ink. If we started with black ink, how do we have all these different colors? Black ink is actually a mixture of several different organic compounds. These compounds happened to be colored. By performing this TLC experiment, we have separated the colors in that black ink as you can see here. The colors at the bottom of the TLC plate here on the left had strong interactions with the stationary phase and so moved less far. In contrast, the colors at the top of the TLC plate, the yellows, the oranges, and the reds, had weak interactions with the stationary phase and thus moved farther up the TLC plate. There are 3 important components to any TLC experiment. The first is the type of stationary phase. The second is the type of mobile phase. And the third is the type of compound you're analyzing. To try and aid you in understanding TLC. This webcast will discuss components separately, and it may help you when thinking through TLC problems to think about components as separate entities, and then see how they connect. We shall begin this discussion of the components of a TLC experiment by talking about the stationary phase. Remember that in a TLC experiment, the stationary phase, is a nonmoving, thin layer of adsorbant material placed on some inert backing. There are two general types of stationary phases you can use in a TLC experiment. The first and most common type is what is called a normal phase. In a normal phase TLC, the stationary phase TLC is a polar substance. The most common examples being silica gel, or alumina. as you can see here the image on the right, silica gel is a network of SiOSi bonds. Each of these asterisks represents the networks of SiOSi bonds in the silica gel stationary phase. The reason the silica gel is polar is because at the surface of the silica gel, we have these silicon OH bonds, and you know that OH is a very polar bond. The second type of general stationary phase is what is called, reverse phase. In a reverse phase TLC, the stationary phase is a nonpolar material. The most common example of this is silica gel that has been what we call 'capped' with hydrocarbon chains. As you can see here on the right we have transformed our SiOH bonds into SiO-alkyl chain bonds. You know that CC and CH bonds are nonpolar. By capping OH bonds with these long alkyl chains, we create a very nonpolar surface coating. So, we have two types of stationary phases that we can use in a TLC experiment. A polar normal phase, and a nonpolar reverse phase. The type of phase you use matters a great deal. And analyte affinity for the stationary phase. Or in other words, how strongly the analyte sticks to the stationary phase depends on the polarity of the stationary phase and the functional groups in the analyte compound. Here is a general listing of common functional groups you can find on organic molecules. Here on the right we start with standard hydrocarbons and alkyl halides. And as we go to the left, we start seeing heteroatoms, and you might notice a trend. As we go from right to left, we go from having molecules that only possess vanderwaals interactions to molecules that possess dipole-dipole interactions, to molecules that can hydrogen bond.
Do not memorize the exact order that is drawn here. Instead remember that trend. Molecules that possess primarily van der Waals forces are the least polar. Molecules that possess dipole dipole interactions of the words molecules of polar bonds are moderately polar and ball skills that can hydrogen bond are the most polar. When we have a polar stationary phase hold or compounds interact with it more strongly.They have a higher affinity for; they stick better. In contrast you might imagine that if we have a nonpolar stationary phase the opposite is true. If we are using a non-polar reverse phase then non polar compounds should have the strongest interactions with the stationary phase. The takehome message here is that polar compounds stick better to polar stationary phases. Non polar compounds stick better to non-polar stationary phases. The stronger the affinity of a compound for the stationary phase, the stronger a compound sticks to the stationary phase, the less distance it will travel in a TLC experiment. now let's discuss the mobile phase. When deciding on what elements or another words what solvent or solvent mixture to use in a TLC experiment you have to consider a few things. If we are using a normal phase TLC plates we must ensure that our chosen solvent or solvent mixture readily dissolves our compound. Remember in a chromatography experiment the purpose of the mobile phase is to move or transport hour and a light across the stationary phase. If our analyte cannot enter the mobile phase because it is insoluble in the mobile phase then the analyte can never move and therefore the experiment cannot work. The solvent we choose cannot be too polar. The reason for this is that if we choose a solvent that is too polar, all of our compounds will move too quickly and therefore will not separate. We will discuss how polarity affect how fast compounds move on the next slide. The solvent must also not be too nonpolar. If the solvent is too non-polar that are compounds will not move at all. Remember these facts are true for a normal phase TLC plate. If we are using a reverse-phase TLC plate, the type of eluant that causes compounds to move too quickly and the type of eluant that causes compounds to move too slowly is reversed. Generally the eluant we choose for a TLC experiment is determined by trial and error. It is difficult to accurately predict what eluant is best to use in a TLC experiment. Here we have a listing of common organic solvent used in TLC experiments. These solvents are ordered based on their polarity creating what we call an eluotropic series. Eluo coming from the word eluant. As you go from the bottom of this list to the top of this list, we get more polar. Like with the polarity of compounds you saw a few slides back do not memorize this list. Instead memorize the trend. Here at the bottom, we have common hydrocarbons and other compounds that contain only van der Waals interactions, then we have compounds that contain hetero atoms that are polar therefore they contain dipole dipole interactions, and finally the most polar solvents ourselves that can hydrogen bond. This trend is exactly the same as what you saw previously. In a normal phase TLC plates, one that is polar, increasing the polarity of the eluant result in what we call an increase in eluant strength. In other words in a normal phase TLC plate, increasing the strength of the eluant result in all compounds moving faster.
The reverse is true as well If we lower the strength of the eluent if we make the eluent less polar all compounds move more slowly In a reverse phase TLC experiment where we have a nonpolar stationary phase the opposite is true with a nonpolar stationary phase the less polar you make the solvent the faster the compounds move to summarize the more similar the eluent is to the polarity of the stationary phase the faster the compounds move in the experiment polar eluents result in fast moving compounds using a normal phase TLC plate. nonpolar eluents result in faster movement of compounds using a reverse phase TLC plate. the polarity of the eluent directly determines what we call the retention or how far the compounds move on the stationary phase That is the end of the background of a TLC experiment but before we continue we need to be able to answer this seemingly simple question you run a normal phase TLC plate you then repeat the experiment but this time, you use a more polar solvent system what kinds of compounds move further up the TLC plate? let's break this question into components there is the stationary phase to consider and there is the mobile phase to consider you know the normal phase TLC plate is a polar stationary phase that means polar compounds will stick well and move a small distance whereas nonpolar compounds will not stick well and will move a greater distance now let's talk about the mobile phase by increasing the polarity of the solvent, we will increase the strength of the eluent because we are using a polar stationary phase and we know that increasing the strength of the eluent means that all of our compounds move faster. therefore, the answer to this question is that because we are increasing the polarity of the solvent system, we are increasing the strength of the eluent all compounds should move farther across the TLC plate. The polarity of the compounds themselves is entirely irrelevant. the polarity of the stationary phases is what determines the order in which compounds move or what we call elute up a TLC plate. The mobile phase is what determines exactly how far these compounds will elute the mobile phase will never change the order in which compounds move up a TLC plate. That brings us to the end of this webcast. To recap Thin layer chromatography is a method for the analysis of compounds or mixtures of compounds. The stationary phase of a TLC plate determines which compounds adhere more strongly to the stationary phase. the more similar the compounds in the mixture of the analytes are to the stationary phase, the smaller the distance they travel If you have a polar stationary phase, polar compounds adhere more strongly and therefore a smaller distance If you have a nonpolar reverse phase stationary phase, the nonpolar compounds adhere more strongly and travel a smaller distance The mobile phase used in a TLC analysis determines how far compounds travel. The more similar the mobile phase is to the stationary phase, the farther everything travels If I have a polar stationary phase, the more polar I make the mobile phase I make the eluent the farther all of my compounds travel up the TLC plate. If I have a nonpolar stationary phase the less polar I make the mobile phase, I make the eluent that farther everything travels.
Thin Layer Chromatography. Performing an Analysis. In this webcast, we will discuss how a TLC analysis is performed. We will talk about how to set up and then use a TLC plate. How to view or visualize that TLC plate, and then how to analyze or interpret that TLC plate. First, you have to prepare you TLC plate. Step one it to acquire your TLC plate. And then draw a line a short distance away from the bottom of the plate, somewhere around 1 cm. You don't have to actually measure 1 cm, just eyeball it. It is important to draw this line in pencil. Pen ink contains many different organic compounds. Those organic compounds will contaminate your TLC experiment. Every time you draw on a TLC plate, you must use pencil. Now that we have drawn this horizontal line across the TLC plate, you will add hash marks perpendicular to that line. The number of hash marks you draw will depends on the number of samples you intend to place on your TLC plate. Sometimes, one of these hashes will be designated a reference hash. Each of these hashes corresponds to what organic chemists would call a lane. The compounds will move from the bottom of this TLC plate to the top in a straight line. So each hash mark corresponds to a particular lane on the TLC plate. The purpose of a reference lane is to provide something to compare to, once the experiment is complete. Once you have made you hash marks and labeled you hash marks, you will then spot a solution if your compound. For this experiment the solutions will be made for you. You will take a small glass capillary and draw a small amount of the solution into the glass capillary. You will then spot a small amount of the solution onto each hash mark. It is important to try to keep the spots small. Spots that are too large will not elute properly. After you spot your sample your TLC will look wet. You will then wait until the spots have completely dried and all the solvent has evaporated. You can accelerate this processes by carefully drying your TLC plate using an air stream. Now that your TLC plate is prepared, the time has come to do what we call developing the plate. Its time to perform our TLC experiment. First, you will take a container, in your case you will take your beaker, and you will add a small amount of your eluent to your beaker. Do not measure half a centimeter simply eyeball it. Once your solvent it in your beaker, you will then add your TLC plate to your beaker using a pair of tweezers. You will then cover your beaker using aluminum foil. In your case your also instructed to add a filter paper to your beaker prior to placing you TLC plate into the beaker. The purpose of the filter paper is to evaporate some of the solvent. What this does is it saturates the atmosphere in the beaker with evaporated solvent. his will slow down the evaporation of the eluent as it travels up the TLC plate, allowing for faster development. When placing your TLC plate into the eluent, do ensure that your horizontal line is above the solvent. If your horizontal line is submerged in the solvent you analytes will simply dissolve and will not travel up the plate.Now that your TLC plate is in the solvent, capillary action will draw the eluent up your TLC plate. you will simply wait until the eluent is about 1 cm from the top f the plate. This may take a few minutes. You can accelerate this processes by using filter paper as instructed in the lab manual, as well as ensuring that you have completely covered the top of your beaker. The end of the development processes should look something like this where you eluent is about one centimeter from the top of your TLC plate. This line of solvent is what we call the solvent front. The solvent front is the maximum distance the solvent has traveled from the bottom of the plate to the top of the plate. Once your solvent front has traveled an appropriate distance, you will then remove your plate from the beaker using tweezers. You must then immediately mark the solvent front with your pencil. Once you remove the TLC plate from the beaker your solvent will begin evaporating immediately. Do not wait to long to mark the solvent front otherwise the solvent will completely evaporate and you will have no idea where to make your mark. After marking the solvent front, simply wait for your TLC plate to dry.. You can accelerate this process by carefully drying your TLC plate with an air stream.
After developing your TLC plate and allowing it to dry, your TLC plate will likely look something very similar to this, the same as when it started. Don't be fooled, just because you cannot see any compounds, it does not mean that no compounds are here. After the TLC plate has dried, the first thing you will do is circle any visible spots on the TLC plate with pencil. However, most organic compounds are not colored, therefore they will be invisible to the naked eye on a TLC plate. If most compounds are invisible to your eye, how can you see them? This is where a process called visualization comes in handy. Visualization is the term for techniques that we use in order to visualize or see the compounds on our TLC plate. The first type of visualization you will use is ultraviolet light. You will take your TLC plate and place it under an ultraviolet lamp, which will be located in the labs. After placing the TLC plate under the UV light, your TLC plate will glow green, with the excpetion of these dark spots. These dark spots you see correspond to different compounds. Each spot is one compound. Now that you can see these spots, you will mark them following the instructions in your lab manual. The reason that we can use UV light in this way is because TLC plates are often dubbed with an indicator, such as zinc sulfide. These indicators flouresce green under the type of ultra violet light that you will be using. Compounds on the TLC plate will block this flourescene from occuring and will therefore appear dark. You will also be visualizing your TLC plate using iodine. How this technique works is that you will take your TLC plate and you will place it into a jar that contains iodine. The iodine in the chamber will sublime and stick to the surface of the TLC plate, turning it a brown color. As the TLC plate turns color, you will notice the appearance of several dark spots. Once you are confident that all spots have been visualized, usually waiting long enough for the entire plate to turn brown is enough, you will then remove the plate and mark the spots according to the instructions in your lab manual. Don't wait too long however. Remember iodine sublimes, the moment you remove your TLC plate from the iodine chamber, the iodine on your TLC plate will begin to sublime into the atmosphere and dissapear. Remember to quickly mark your spots before all of your iodine dissapears. Why are we using two visualizing methods? On the previous slide, I showed you this TLC plate, which was visualized using iodine. You may have noticed that this TLC plate showed different spots then the TLC plate visualized using ultraviolet light. That wasn't by accident. Not all compounds can be visualized using all methods. If you look at the plate visualized using ultraviolet light, we see these bottom spots, that are not present on the TLC plate visualized using iodine. At the top of the iodine plate, we see these two spots that are not present on the TLC plate visualized using ultraviolet light. This is why it is important to have different mehtods of visualization. In the TLC experiment, you may find some compounds that can be visualized using one method, and not be the other. Ok, so we have developed the TLC plate, we have visualized it, and we have labled the various spots on our TLC plate. What do we actually record in our notebook? You usually record a few things. One is a sketch of the TLC plate and the second is a calculation of what is called a rentention factor. A rentention factor is a measure of the distance a compound travels across a TLC plate. The calculation is actually quite simple. To calculate the retention factor, or Rf, you take the distance your analyte traveled and divide it by the distance the eluent traveled. In other words, it is the distance a spot traveled over the distance the solvent front traveled. Let us look at this TLC plate for an example. I want to measure the retention factor of the purple spot. To calculate that I have to find the distance the purple spot traveled, which in this case is 3.5 centimeters. To find this value, I measure the distance from where the spot started, where I placed it, to where the spot ended, up here, and I measure at the middle of the spot. I then take this value and divide it by the distance the solvent front traveled, which is the distance from the horizontal line to the mark I made to indicate the solvent front. I plug these vales into this equation, 3.5 over 6, to get a value of 0.58. Notice that the retention factor is unitless, this is because the retention factor is simply a ratio of distances. That being said, when performing your calculation, do not forget to include your units.
Recording this data is important. Because the retention factor of a compound is characteristic of that compound. What do I mean by characteristic? What that means is if I repeat this TLC experiment again, and again, and again, the retention factor for the purple spot will always be 0.58. However, there are important criteria to meet first. The retention factor for a compound is constant only in the exact chromatographic conditions. This means that if i change the stationary phase, I change the retention factor. If i change the mobile phase, I change the retention factor. This is why it is important to always record the exact TLC conditions you use. Now, some quick tips to help you perform the TLC experiment. First, make sure you are always wearing your gloves and do not touch the silica gel with your bare hands. If you touch a TLC plate with your bare hands, the oils on your hand will contaminate your experiment. When drawing your lines, don't push down too hard. The silica gel layer on the TLC plate is, as the name of the technique suggests, a very thin layer, and is easy to break through. Draw lightly and carefully on a TLC plate to not damage it. When spotting your solutions, try to spot small spots of roughly equal size. Using small spots helps ensure that you have high quality TLC plates. Keep a careful eye on the TLC plate as you are developing it. Do not allow the solvent front to reach the top of the TLC plate. This is what we call overdeveloping. Overdeveloping a TLC plate means that your retention factors are no longer reliable. When visualizing your TLC plate using ultraviolet light, do be careful to not expose your eyes or your skin to the UV light. The iodine in the iodine chambers is corrosive and toxic. So, please use it carefully and only in the fume hood. And finally, this is your first wet experiment. That means this will be the first time you will have to dispose of various chemicals and used equipment. Make sure you dispose of waste in the appropriate containers. That brings us to the end of this webcast. To recap, visualization is the process used to allow compounds on a TLC plate to be seen. Different methods of visualization will work for different compounds. As discussed in this webcast, you will be using two methods of visualization in the experiment. One using ultraviolet light and one using iodine. The retention factor of a compound is a measure of the distance a compound travels compared to the distance the solvent front travels. This value is characteristic of a particular compound. This comes with a caveat, however. It is characteristic only if all aspects of a particular TLC experiment are a constant. For example, if you change the stationary phase, you change the retention factor. If you change the mobile phase, you change the retention factor.
Thin Layer Chromatography- Applications. In the previous webcasts, we discussed how TLC works and how to perform a TLC analysis. In this webcast, we will discuss what we can learn using TLC in the laboratory. One use of TLC is to do a preliminary determination of the purity of a compound. To do this kind of analysis, you will compare your sample of compound of unknown purity to a sample of the same compound that you know was pure. There are two possible results. Here on this TLC plate I have two lanes. One labeled K and one labeled U. The lane labeled K is where I spotted my known pure sample of compound. The lane labeled U is where I spotted my compound of unknown purity. On this TLC plate, we can see that we have two spots in our unknown lane. Remember, each spot on a TLC plate corresponds to a different compound. Therefore, our sample of unknown purity is impure because it contains more than one compound. If our TLC instead looked like this, where we have only one spot in the unknown lane, and that one spot is at the same retention factor as the spot in the known purity lane, we can say that our sample of unknown purity is probably pure. Why am I saying probably? It is possible, albeit unlikely, to have an impurity with the same retention factor as the compound. In other words, it is possible that there are multiple spots overlapping together. Such a situation is unlikely, but it must always be considered. The next use of a TLC plate is a preliminary identification of an unknown compound. This analysis is very similar to the analysis we just used on the previous slide. You will do a comparison. You will spot a pure known compound and compare it the spot of a pure unknown compound. One potential result is this TLC plate. Where again, K stands for our known compound and U stands for our unknown compound. Here, our unknown compound has a different retention factor than our known compound. Therefore, our unknown compound cannot be our known compound. We could also have a situation such as this. Where our unknown compound has the same retention factor as our known compound. This is very good evidence that our unknown compound is the same as our known compound. However, it is possible that our unknown compound is a different compound. It just happens to have the same retention factor as the known compound. This is unlikely, but it must always be considered. The final general use of TLC is following reaction progress. When a chemist performs an organic chemical reaction, how do they know when the reaction is done? We can use TLC to what we call 'monitor or watch' a reaction as it proceeds. What we do is over time we take the reaction solution and spot in on a TLC plate, which in this case designated by R-x-n for our reaction lane. And, we compare our reaction lane to our starting material. This TLC plate corresponds to a TLC plate that was taken before the reaction began. As we can see, our reaction mixture contains only starting material. If we wait some amount of time, we might see a TLC plate that looks like this. We now see two spots in our reaction mixture. One spot corresponds to the starting material. But we also have the second new spot. This new spot probably belongs to the product we are making in this chemical reaction. If we wait even longer, we might see a TLC plate that looks like this. Our reaction mixture now contains only one spot again. But now, that one spot does not correspond to the starting material. This means that all of our starting material is gone and has been converted to product. That brings us to the end of this webcast. To recap, TLC can be used to perform a preliminary purity analysis of a compound. Each spot on a TLC plate corresponds to a compound. If a single sample has more than one spot, that means that sample is impure. Remember, an analysis of a sample that shows only one spot does not mean that that compound is pure, definitively, but it is a good indication. TLC can be used to preliminarily identify an unknown compound. The retention factor for a compound is characteristic. Therefore, if the retention factor for an unknown compound matches the retention factor for a known compound that is a good indication that the compounds are one in the same. Again, this is not definitive. It is possible that two compounds can be different but have the same retention factor. Finally, TLC can be used to monitor the progress of a reaction. If TLC analysis are performed over the course of a reaction, you may be able to see starting materials disappear and products appear on a TLC plate. When all starting material is gone, you know that all of the starting material has been consumed and the reaction is complete.
Determining the absolute configuration of an alcohol. This experiment will be a little different than the types of activity that you've performed so far in this course. Instead of learning a new technique such as spectroscopy or thin layer chromatography. You will now be applying techniques that you already know to answer some questions. In this experiment, you'll answer two questions in regards to an unknown molecule that you will be given. By the end of this experiment, you will determine the structure of the unknown molecular via proton NMR spectroscopy. You will also determine the absolute configuration of that unknown protein. You will do so by using what is called the CEC method which applies TLC. We will talk about TLC shortly. To start today's webcast let us talk a little bit more of chirality. If you're concurrently taking chem 232 you have recently covered this topic. For a brief review, chirality has to do with the three dimensional structure of a molecule. Here on the slide we have two molecules that are identical. Except for the three dimensional orientation of some of this component. As you can see, as drawn these structures are mirrored images of each other. If you try to take the structure of the right and overlap with the one of the left, you will find that you can not be successful. These mirror images are what we called non superimposable. This means that the stereochemical relationship of these two molecules are enantiomers. Enantiomers are non superimposable mirrored images. So we have a pair of enantiomers here. Why do we care? We care because the chirality or more specifically the stereochemistry of a molecule can have tremendous impact on the biological applications of that molecule. For example, this molecule on the left is the S enantiomer of what we call naproxen. You might know naproxen better by its stray name aleve. Aleve is an analgesics which is use as anti-pain, anti-fever, and anti- inflammation pharmaceutical. Now compare those biological properties to the molecule on the right. R- Naproxen is a liver toxin. You can see how knowing which enantiomer we have is important. For this experiment you should review chem 232 notes on a few topics. You should know what stereo centers are and how to identify them and rules to assign whether stereo center is R or S and how to determine if a molecule is chiral if it contains stereo centers. Remember a molecule can have stereo centers but not be chiral. Meso molecules are an example of this. Give them the importance of distinguishing one enantiomer to another just like how easy is it to distinguish one molecule from another. Unfortunately, enantiomers have the same physical properties. For example two enantiomers of a single molecule will give us the proton NMR spectroscopic data. They will have the same retention factor on TLC. They will also melt at the same temperature, boil at the same temperature, and have the same solubility. They do however rotate plane polarized lights in different directions. Unfortunately that does not help which enantiomer of a molecule we have. The direction in compound rotate plane polarized light does not tell us which enantiomer it is. It only tells us we have a chiral molecule. Fortunately, there are techniques that allow us to identify the absolute configuration of a molecule. X-ray crystallography is a very common technique used by chemist. In your biology course as you may have seen crystal structures of various proteins. Those crystal structures were generated using x-ray crystallography. The Mosher Method is a technique organic chemists often use to establish absolute configuration of molecules that contain alcohols. Vibrational circular dichroism is a more recent technique that utilizes computational method to try to predict the absolute configuration of a molecule. All of these techniques require a specialty equipment and require time and training. The technique that you'll be using is called Competing enantioselective conversion (CEC). The CEC method as you will see is quite simple to execute and analyze. To discuss the CEC method, we will break the CEC method into its constituan parts.We will talk about the competing portion, entioselective protein, and conversion portion separately. To start, we will shall discuss the competing aspects of this method.
In this experiment, you will be taking an alcohol shown here on the left and turning it into an ester show here on the right this figure here is what is called a reaction scheme this may be the first time you have seen something like this a reaction scheme is how organic chemists communicate what is being used in a chemical reaction on the left side of a reaction scheme we have our starting materials these are the chemicals the reagents we are going to use in our chemical reaction we have this arrow moving from left to right that designates that our starting materials on the left are being converted into what we call products on the right everything on the right side of this arrow is a product located above and below the arrows are where organic chemists often place what are called the reaction conditions. the reaction conditions can include things such as other reagents being used in the chemical reaction in this case, we are including a type of molecule called an anhydride in this case, buteric anhydride and down below an organic base in this case, a triethylamine other information you might find above and below an arrow in a reaction scheme includes things like the reaction temperature the reaction time and the reaction solvent let us interpret this reaction scheme here before we continue what this reaction scheme tells us that we are taking an alcohol and using this anhydride and this base we are converting our alcohol into this ester This type of reaction is called an esterification if you are concurrently CHEM232, you will not have covered this material yet that's okay for now we simply need to be able to read a reaction scheme where the starting materials are on the left products are on the right and above and below the arrows are the reaction conditions and be able to identify the type of molecules being used we have an alcohol being turned into an ester using an anhydride and a base this type of reaction often proceeds very quickly however, under the particular conditions you will be using this reaction is very slow to accelerate or speed up this reaction you will be using a catalyst shown here in blue This particular catalyst is called Homobenzotetramisole or HBTM for short do not worry about memorizing the full name just recognize this molecule as being called HBTM now that we know what kind of reaction you will be performing in this experiment let us discuss how you will be using it in this experiment, you will be performing this esterification reaction twice you will perform two separate reactions each reaction does the same thing both reactions take an alcohol and using an anhydride and a base convert that alcohol into an ester this reaction, is accelerated through the use of a catalyst HBTM if you look closely, you might see that there is a slight difference between these two reactions if you look at the HBTM catalyst the reaction on top uses one enantiomer of HBTM and the reaction on the bottom uses the other enantiomer of HBTM this is a subtle but very important difference to recap this slide the competing portion of a CEC experiment comes from you performing two identical experiments except one experiment uses one enantiomer of HBTM while the other experiment uses the other enantiomer of HBTM before continuing let us discuss how HBTM accelerates this reaction .
Here on this slide I have each?? and I am exposing it to the anhydride used in this reaction. What's happening here? When?? is placed in the presence of an anhydride, it reacts with that anhydride to make what is called a reactive intermediate which we see here on the right. The anhydride on its own is not reactive enough to react with the alcohol. What we have done is take two low energy reagents and combined them to make one high reactive intermediate, which will react very quickly with alcohols. We have finished discussing the competing portion of a CEC experiment. now let us discuss the enantioselective portion. Here on the screen in blue is the structure of hbtm(?), our catalyst. However, you know that this structure is not complete. You recognize that there is a stereo center here, at this carbon connecting the nitrogen and the phenyl group. This means this molecule is chiral and comes as two enantiomers, shown here in black. One of these is the R enantiomer of hbtm and one of these is the S enantiomer of hbtm. I'm not going to tell you which one is which. I expect you to be able to assign which enantiomer of hbtm is R and which one is S. Ok, so hbtm is chiral. Why do we care? We care because while enantiomers have the same physical properties, they may and often do, have different chemical properties. In this experiment you will take each enantiomer of hbtm and react it with one enantiomer of alcohol. In this case, let us assume that your unknown alcohol possesses this stereochemistry. Here on this slide we have a chiral alcohol that will react with a chiral catalyst. Will this chiral alcohol react the same way with each chiral catalyst? The answer is no. We will see what we call enantioselectivity. The chiral alcohol will be selective for one enantiomer of catalyst over the other. Let's talk about why that is. On this slide I am showing a pair of gloves. At the top I have a left handed glove, and at the bottom I have a right handed glove. Think of these gloves as the hbtm catalyst. Where the left handed glove is one enantiomer of the catalyst, and the right handed glove is the other enantiomer of the catalyst. Now, let us take these gloves and try to fit a hand in them. In this case, my left hand. You could think of my left hand as the one enantiomer of alcohol on the previous slide. We're going to take one enantiomer of my hand, and try to place it into each enantiomer of this glove. Or in the actual reaction, we're going to take one enantiomer of alcohol and react it with each enantiomer of catalyst. There are two potential outcomes. The first outcome, taking my left hand and putting it into my left handed glove, results in my left hand fitting in my left handed glove quite well. In the other situation, taking my left hand and trying to fit it into my right handed glove does not work out so well. I can get it in there, but it doesn't really fit right. This top situation is a matched case. The enantiomer of my hand matches the enantiomer of the glove. The bottom is what we might call a mismatched case, where the enantiomer of my hand does not match the enantiomer of my glove. We can take this same analogy and apply it to our two chemical reactions. Here we are showing our activated intermediate already formed. Consider this top activated intermediate as one enantiomer of glove, and this bottom activated intermediate as the other enantiomer of glove. Each activated intermediate will react with the same chiral alcohol. Now remember, we don't know which enantiomer this alcohol is, that's what you're trying to figure out. But you do know you have only one enantiomer. This alcohol is the same as my hand on the previous slide. What will happen here is the alcohol will react with the activated intermediates to form the product ester. Both reacts form the same product to regenerate the catalyst, and a triethylamine salt that was used to de-protonate or remove this proton that was on the alcohol. One of these cases will be what we call a matched case. The other case will be a mismatched case. What determines whether the top reaction is the matched case or the bottom reaction is the matched case?
The source of the entantioselectivity of this reaction has two components. The first has to do with the stereochemistry of the catalyst. Here on this slide, I am showing two visual representations of our alcohol reacting with our activated intermediate. On the left, I have a two dimensional drawing of this reaction. And on the right I have a three dimensional drawing generated using a program Spartan. In both images, my alcohol is at the top and the activated intermediate is at the bottom. In this drawing in the left, I have drawn this phenyl ring here pointing down in a red color. If you look at the three dimensional structure here on the right you see that this phenyl ring points straight down. The consequence of this is that the phenyl ring effectively blocks the bottom half of our activated intermediate. If our alcohol wants to react with the activated intermediate, it has to come from the top side because the bottom side is blocked by this very large, very bulky phenyl group. That is the first component of this reaction's enantioselectivity. The second component of this reaction's enantioselectivity has to do with the aromatic system on the catalyst. If you look to the drawing on the left and look at the blue colored portions of the activated intermediate, we see an aromatic system. This aromatic system participates in what is called pi stacking with the aromatic system on the alcohol. In your biology courses, you may have heard of pi stacking in relation to DNA. What is happening here is that the aromatic portions of the molecules are lining up to stack on top of each other. You can think of the catalysts as a kind of landing pad for the aromatic ring on the alcohol. What these two components do is, in the matched case of the enantiomer of alcohol and enantiomer of catalyst, the alcohol is perfectly positioned to react with the carbonyl. In a mismatched case, using the other enantiomer of our activated intermediate, this OH would not be perfectly positioned and would take more time to move and rotate in order to react with the carbonyl in our activated intermediate. I want to make a distinction here. The phenyl ring on the stereocenter is not involved in the pi stacking with the alcohol. The phenyl ring on the stereocenter is entirely a steric interaction. It's big so it blocks one side of the activated intermediate. It is not involved in the pi stacking that orients the alcohol for its attack on the activated intermediate. That finishes our discussion on the enantioselective portion of this method. Now let us discuss the final conversion portion. Okay, so we have two reactions. Each reaction takes the same alcohol to make the same product. The only difference between these two reactions is the enantiomer of catalyst used. One of these reactions will be a matched case where the enantiomer of the alcohol is matched with the enantiomer of the catalyst, whereas in the other reaction, the enantiomer of the alcohol will be mismatched with the enantiomer of the catalyst. To explain why this is useful to us, we have to go back to general chemistry for a bit and talk about kinetics. Recall that kinetics deals with the rate, the speed of the reaction, and that the rate of a reaction depends on k which is a constant which varies from reaction and the concentration of the reagents. For this particular reaction, the rate law is k (our constant) times the concentration of the alcohol times the concentration of the catalyst times the concentration of the anhydride. If these reactions are identical, shouldn't they have the same concentration of alcohol and catalyst and anhydride? The answer is yes, both of these reactions are using the same concentrations of these reagents. Therefore, shouldn't these reactions proceed at the same rate? The answer is actually no, and this is because of enantioselectivity. The matched case will be faster. Here, in our competing reaction, one reaction will be faster than the other because the faster reaction will be the matched pair of alcohol and catalyst. And it turns out, if we know which reaction is faster, we can identify the absolute configuration of our alcohol.
If the reaction using R-HBTM is faster, then the alcohol when drawn like this has the OH coming out towards us. Which here is the S configuration. If the S enantiomer of catalyst is faster, then the alcohol is the R confiuration. Okay, so we're going to have a mast reaction and a mis masht reaction. The masht reaction will be faster if we know which reaction is faster, we know what enantiomer of alcohol we have. How will we determine which reaction is faster? To do this, we will look at conversion. Conversion is a measure of how far our reaction has proceed. How much product has been made. Have we made 25% of our product or have we made 75% of our product. In this experiment, both of your reactions will run for the same amount of time. One hour. This means that the faster reaction will produce more product. Let's talk briefly about the procedure. To recap you have two reactions, both reactions use the same unknown alcohol. Mechanically this experiment is quite simple. You will take pre made solutions and add them in the correct volumes in the correct order. The correct order is very important. Once you have added all of your solutions in the right order, you will then have to wait one hour. In that one hour waiting time, you will take proton NMR spectroscopic data given to you, and determine the structure of your unknown compound. Your alcohol will be one of these three options. Shown here on this slide. You will then in your notebook, justify which structure is your unknown compound. Now remember er, enantiomers give the same spectroscopic information; therefore, you will not be able to determine which enantiomer you have using the NMR data. That is why you are performing the CEC method. In this experiment, you will determine which reaction made more product using TLC, which we will discuss on the next slide. Using this data, you will then establish the absolute configuration of your unknown alcohol and justify your conclusion in your notebook. Here is an example CEC analysis TLC plate. We have two lanes, A and B. Each lane is one reaction. We see that in lane A we have two spots and in lane B we have the same two spots. However, the spots in lane A have different intensities than the spots in lane B. How are you going to interpret this TLC? Remember, in your reaction you are taking an alcohol and converting it into an ester. One of these spots is the alcohol and one of these spots is the ester. You will need to determine which spot is the alcohol and which spot is the ester using what you already know about TLC. Once you have identified which spot is the ester, you will then look and see which lane has the more intense ester spot. The intensity of a spot is directly proportional to the amount of that compound present. More intense spots, darker spots, mean more material. You will look at your two lanes and see which lane has the darker ester spot. Alternatively you could also look at which lane has the lighter alcohol spot, because remember the alcohol is being used to make the ester. The faster reaction will use up more alcohol. The alcohol spot should be lighter as a result. You will notice that this plate is green. In order to visualize the spot, you will be using a new method of TLC visualization. You will be staining your plate using a stain called Phosphomolybdic acid or PMA for short. Simply follow the instructions on your procedure. The post lab quiz for this experiment will be a little different than the post lab quizzes that you have seen so far. Thus far in the course, you have learned new techniques and the post lab quizzes tested your understanding of those techniques. This experiment is teaching you about a new technique, the CEC method, but it is also applying old techniques.
For this post-lab quiz, you should expect some fundamental questions on stereochemistry, be able to answer questions involving the stereochemistry concepts I specified at the very beginning of this webcast. You should expect some fundamental questions on the CEC Method. You should understand the competing aspect of the CEC Method, the enantioselective aspect of the CEC Method, and the conversion aspect of the CEC Method. You should also expect critical thinking questions. What do I mean by critical thinking questions? This experiment is about taking techniques you know and applying them to answer a question. What if I changed something about the experiment? Would you be able to predict what would happen as a result? That's what I mean by critical thinking questions: taking what you know and being able to predict what would happen if something was changed, or being able to decide on what to do if you wanted to cause a particular change to occur. Finally, expect spectroscopy questions as well. This experiment isn't about spectroscopy but it does utilize spectroscopy and given the importance of spectroscopy you should expect some questions testing your knowledge of it. That brings us to the end of this webcast. To recap, the CEC Method allows us to determine the absolute configuration of an unknown alcohol. It does so by comparing the rates of two reactions between the alcohol and a pair of catalyst enantiomers in the presence of butyric anhydride. Which of these two reactions is faster is established by using TLC. After knowing which reaction is faster, we use a predictive mnemonic to establish the absolute configuration of our unknown alcohol.
Melting points background. In this webcast, we will discuss what melting points are, what can affect them, and how to determine the melting or freezing point of a mixture using a phase diagram. For a quick review of general chemistry, physical properties can be identified by observing a sample. By physically watching a sample the identity of the sample does not change and as a result the physical properties do not change, making them characteristic of that compound. Examples of physical properties include: the solubility of a compound in some solvent, the boiling point of that compound, the color of that compound, and the melting point of that compound. For example, pure gold is always yellow. The color is characteristic of gold. Melting point is the temperature at which there is a phase change of solid to liquid. An example of this would be ice turning into liquid water. Here on the right we have a phase diagram. Remember that a phase diagram shows how the phases of, in this case, a pure compound changes as the temperature changes. Here on the x-axis we have the amount of heat added to our sample, for as we go to left to right, we add more heat. On the y-axis, we have the temperature of our sample, for as we go from the bottom to the top we have an increase in temperature. We start here at the bottom left with the solid at some temperature. As we add heat to it, the temperature of that solid increases. This continues until we reach the melting point. At the melting point, we continue to add heat but the temperature does not change. This is because all the energy from the heat is being used to convert the solid into a liquid until all of our sample has melted and turned into a liquid at which point the heat can then be used to continue increasing the temperature of our sample. At the melting point, at this plateau area of the phase diagram, both liquid and solid exist in equilibrium. By adding enough heat to a sample we can drive the equilibrium to complete liquid or by removing enough heat we can drop the equilibrium to complete solid. For a pure compound, the melting point is actually a melting range. The compound will melt over a narrow temperature range of about 1-2 degrees celsius. If we have an impure compound that contains soluble impurities-- notice how soluble is in red there we'll come back to that in a moment-- the melting point will be much lower and have a wider temperature range. This effect of soluble impurities of a melting point of a sample is called a melting point depression. As a result, melting points are an indicator of purity, where more impurities result in a larger melting point depression. If you know the melting point of a compound and your sample of that compound does not match that melting point that means your sample must be impure. The farther away your sample's melting point is from what the melting point should be the more impure the sample is. Why do impurities cause this melting point depression? This has to do with the crystal lattice of the solid. Here on this slide we see a number of turquoise circles arranged in a regular repeating pattern. Each of these circles represents one molecule. It takes energy to break this lattice up and convert these molecules from the solid phase to the liquid phase. Let's add an impurity to our crystal lattice and see what that does. Here on the right I have the same crystal lattice but I've added this yellow circle which represents this impurity. Because this impurity is a different molecule than the rest of the solid it disrupts the crystal lattice, it causes all of the other molecules to not fit together as well as they should. As a result the crystal lattice is weaker and it takes less energy to break it apart. The solid melts at a lower temperature. To show the effect that an impurity has on a melting point of a compound, we can use what is called a phase diagram. This slide is showing what is called a two component phase diagram where our mixture contains only two compounds here labeled A and B. Along the y-axis we have the temperature of the sample. Where as you go from the bottom to the top we increase in temperature. Along the x-axis, we have the mole fraction of our mixture, in this case specified as the mole fraction of compound B. The mole fraction is simply a ratio of the number of moles of a particular compound in this case B and the total moles of compounds in the mixture. For example if in my mixture I have one mole of B and one mole of A, the mole fraction of this mixture is one mole of B over two total moles of compound to give me a mole fraction of 0.5. Mole fraction is essentially another way of writing percent. If I have a mixture that is 0.7 mole fraction of mole B, that means my mixture is 70% B. The reason we use mole fraction as a percentage is that mole fraction is used in several mathematic equations.
Let's analyze this phase diagram. First what are the melting points of pure acetic acid and pure water. If you look on the left where we have a mole fraction of water of 0, in other words pure acetic acid, we see that the liquidus line intercepts the y-axis at about 17 degrees Celsius. Where as on the other side where we have a mole fraction of water of 1, pure water, you have a melting point of about 0 degrees Celsius. And if we could zoom in even further, we could get some exact values for these melting points. Okay, so our eyeball guess were pretty close to the actual values. Now let us see if we can identify a eutectic mixture of water and acetic acid. We know that a eutectic mixture creates a eutectic point, and a eutectic point is the place on the diagram that has the lowest melting point. We see here on the diagram that the lowest melting point is right here. And the mole fraction of water at that point is about 0.7. Therefore, a mixture that is 70% water and 30% acetic acid is a eutectic mixture. Now let us use a phase diagram to show what happens if we take a sample of acetic acid and water and begin to freeze it. In this example, we have a mixture that is a mole fraction of 0.9 H2O and it starts at 20 degrees Celsius. What happens as we cool? First, let's find the mole fraction on the x-axis. Here we go, 0.9 of water and now let's find the relevant temperature: 20 degrees Celsius. So we start here on the phase diagram. Let's start cooling it. Let's lower the temperature, lower the temperature. Eventually, we reach the liquidus line. At the liquidus line, we begin to freeze the mixture but not the entire mixture begins to freeze. At this point, only water begins to freeze. So as we take this mixture and begin freezing it, the solid we make is pure water. What's the consequence of this on the mole fraction of the liquid mixture left behind? Well, if we are taking water, and only water, from the liquid mixture and turning it into a solid, then the mole fraction of water remaining in the liquid must decrease. In other words, we move towards the left on this phase diagram. As we freeze more and more water, the liquid contains less and less water so our mole fraction of water has to decrease, and this continues until we reach the eutectic point. At the eutectic point, we have a eutectic mixture. What's special about a eutectic mixture is that the solid that forms when a eutectic mixture freezes is the same composition as the liquid it started with. So, at this point we have only solid water and a eutectic mixture in the liquid. If we continue cooling, the liquid continues to freeze, only now, because we are eutectic mixture, both water and acetic acid begin freezing turning into a solid. The solid that forms as a result of freezing a eutectic mixture is a eutectic mixture. So, in this case, if our liquid is 70% water, then the solid that forms as a result of freezing the mixture is also 70% water. We continue cooling, we continue cooling, until all of the liquid is frozen then our new solid composition has to be the same as what we started with. Hopefully that makes sense. If we take a sample that is 90% water and we freeze all of it, the solid also has to be 90% water. If we continue cooling, the temperature simply continues to fall. Let's walk through that one more time. You started with a mixture at a particular mole fraction at a particular temperature. We began to cool it down until we hit the liquidus line. When we hit the liquidus line, the water and only the water began to freeze. As a result, the mole fraction of water in the liquid left behind decreases and continues to decrease until we reach a eutectic mixture. Once the liquid left behind is a eutectic mixture, both water and acetic acid begin to freeze simultaneously, and they freeze in a eutectic ratio.
This continues until the entire sample is frozen at which point the temperature simply falls as we continue cooling the sample. This was an example of freezing. You can imagine a sample of melting which is identical expect going in the opposite direction. For example, we can start down here in the completely solid region, begin heating, and once we hit the solidus line we begin to melt. The mixture melts until we have only solid water at which point the pure remaining solid water melts, the mole fraction of the liquid phase increases in water until everything has melted and then we simply heat the completely liquid mixture. That brings us to the end of this webcast. To recap, the melting point of a compound is characteristic of that compound. No matter how many times you melt a sample of pure water it will always melt at 0 degrees Celsius. Impurities can affect the melting point of the compound. Soluble impurities lower the melting point a compound by disrupting the crystal lattice. Remember this is only for soluble impurities. Insoluble impurities do not affect the melting point a compound. Phase diagrams show what phase a mixture of compounds is in based on the mole ratio the compounds in the mixture and the mixture's temperature. In a phase diagram the curves, for example the liquidis line and lines, for example the solidus line, between regions in a phase diagram show the beginning of transition between phases. These curves and lines are where you start to freeze and/or start to melt depending on which direction you're going.
Melting Point: Performing an Analysis In this webcast, we will discuss how to perform how to perform a melting point analysis and what we can learn from performing a melting point analysis. The first thing you will do is acquire a melting point capillary tube. This tube is a small glass rod where one end the bottom is sealed and the other end, the top, is open. You will take this capillary tube and press the open end into a small amount of your solid sample. This sample uses a watch glass because the glass is a hard surface, although you could also do this in a weighing boat or other soft surfaces. By tapping your capillary tube into the solid, you will push some of your solid into the capillary tube. You will then flip the capillary tube the right side up and tap the bottom of the tube on to a hard surface, such as your bench top, to cause your solid to move to the bottom of the tube. The amount of material in a capillary tube should actually be quite small. You're looking for a height of about 1 to 2 millimeters. If you pack too little into your capillary tube, you might miss it melting. If you pack too much into the capillary tube, you will get inconsistent heating and therefore, a bad melting point. Once you have your sample ready, you will then take your capillary tube and place it into the Mel-Temp here. The Mel-Temp you will use may look different than this one, but they all work the same way. You can view your sample via this magnifying lens here. You control the rate of heating using this knob down at the bottom and you read the temperature inside the Mel-Temp via this read out here. A note about this knob. These numbers you see do not correspond to particular temperatures. In the Mel-Temp area, there are small cars that show how particular power settings correspond to particular rates of heating and particular max temperatures. You can use those cars as a reference to determine how high to set your power setting. Okay, so you've prepped your sample, it's in the Mel-Temp, and you've begun heating your sample. What should you expect to see? Here on the left, we have a sample that is just beginning to melt. We see a very little amount of liquid begin to form. When you see this happen, record the temperature in which this is occurring. This is the start of your melting range. Over time, as you continue to heat, the solid will eventually turn completely into a liquid. The moment it turns completely to a liquid, record that temperature. That is the end of your melting range. For accurate melting points, you must heat carefully. If you heat too quickly, you, one, might miss your sample melting all together, or two, record values that are incorrect. You should be looking at an increase in temperature of about 1 to 2 degrees Celsius a minute. Some tips before you get into the lab. The melting point will always be reported as a range. Remember, the beginning of the range is when you first begin to see liquid and the end of the range is when your sample is completely liquid. Do not melt your sample too quickly. You're looking for, ideally, a one to two degree Celsius per minute change. Allow your Mel-Temp to cool between melting point analyses. You do not want to put your sample in when the Mel-Temp is already above the melting point temperature of your sample. Be aware and watch your sample to avoid having to repeat your melting point analysis. Watching a solid melt is admittedly not the most exciting thing, but you still must watch it to ensure you record accurate data. Depending on how the Mel-Temp is set up, it might be possible to fit more than one capillary tube in a single Mel-Temp. Ask your TA for advice. Finally, make sure your sample is dry. Any solvent that is still clinging to your solid sample will act as an impurity and lower the melting point of your sample. Now we are going to discuss the uses of performing a melting point analysis. A melting point analysis allows us to learn two thing about a sample. It allows us to probe the purity of a known solid substance. It also allows us to determine the identity of an unknown solid assuming I have corroborating evidence from other sources. How can the melting point analysis allow us to learn something about the purity of a sample? Remember the presence of impurities will lower the melting point of a compound. On this slide, I have three samples of benzoic acid and I have listed their melting points below the images. Pause the video and take a minute to think about which of these is the most pure and which of these is the least pure.
Welcome back! I know that the presence of an impurity will lower the melting point of a sample. That means that the sample with the highest melting point should be the most pure. As we can see, the sample in the middle has the highest melting point of the three possibilities. Therefore, this middle sample must be the most pure. What about least pure? well, we also know that the more impure a sample is the lower its melting point and the wider its melting point range. Look at the sample on the right, we see that the melting point is the lowest of the three possibilities and the melting point range, which here is 4 degrees celcius, is wider than the other two. Therefore sample three must be the least pure of these possibilities. How can we use melting points to establish the identity of a compound? To do this, we will use a particular technique. On this slide we get three samples, A, B, and C. One of these vials contains m-nitrophenylacetic acid. The other two vials contain benzoic acid. M-nitrophenylacetic acid and benzoic acid have the same melting point, 120 to 122 degrees celcius. This is important. These are different compounds that possess the same melting point. Therefore we can't melt them individually to figure out which vial contains the m-nitrophenylacetic acid. What we can do, however, is perform a mixed melting point analysis. We know that impurities will lower the melting point of a compound. How can we use this? Well, let's say we mix vial A with vial B. If they are the same compound, then there should be no change in melting point. If they are different compounds, we should see a depression in melting point. Look at these results on the right. Mixing A with B gives a melting point of 120 to 122 degrees celcius. Mixing B with C gives us a melting point of 112 to 118 degrees celcius. Hmmmmm! This mixed melting point is lower than the mixed melting point for A and B. Interesting. Let's look at A and C. Mixing these two compounds result in the melting point of 110 to 117 degrees celcius. What this tells me is that A and B are the same compound because we don't see a depression in the melting point. In contrast, B and C are different compounds because we have a lower melting point. A and C are different compounds for the same reason. Therefore, vial C must be m-nitrophenylacetic acid. These compounds all have the same melting point, but we still see a melting point depression for mixing B with C and mxing A with C, because the two mixed samples were not the same compound. That brings us to the end of this webcast. To recap, melting point analysis samples should be the appropriate height, 1 to 2 millimeters, and heated carefully. A melting point analysis can be used to establish the purity of a compound. Pure compounds have a narrow melting point range. Melting points can also be used to identify a compound via what is called a mixed melting point experiment. If you take an unknown compound and mix it with a known compound and you do not see a melting point depression, that means the two samples must be identical.
Recrystallization Background In this webcast, you will discuss what recrystallization is and how we utilize the solubility of a compound to perform a recrystallization. What is recrystallization? Recrystallization is a purification technique for solids, that is based on controlled solid to solution to solid phase transitions. In other words, you take a solid, you dissolve it in some solvent, and then after being dissolved, the compound returns to being solid hopefully in a more pure form This technique is capable of purifying compounds that contain one or more impurities The physical property that is exploited in this process is solubility If you have made rock candy before, you have actually performed a recrystallization. When making rock candy such as here in the bottom left, you take sugar and you add it to boiling water. Once you've added enough sugar, you allow the water to cool and you place some string or a stick into the water and the sugar crystalizing out onto the solid support. Of course, we wouldn't be talking about recrystallization if making rock candy was all it was good for. Most of the solid pharmaceuticals on the market today, such as you see here in the bottom right, are purified using recrystallization. Even pharmaceuticals as common as aspirin are purified using recrystallization. The solubility of any compound depends on three things. It depends on the solute- the compound you are dissolving, it depends on the solvent- what you are using to dissolve the solute, and the temperature of the solvent. To connect those few variables, a given solute has a specific solubility in a given amount of solvent and a given temperature. Thats a lot of variables to consider when talking about something as simple as trying to dissolve something. Here on the right, we have a graph that shows the solubility of various compounds at various temperatures. The x axis is temperature where as we go from left to right, the temperature increases. The y axis is the solubility of a compound in 100grams of water. As you go from the bottom to the top, more of our compound in grams dissolves in the same amount of water.Each line here corresponds to a particular compound. Let us look at 20 degrees celsius. We see that about 200g of sugar will dissolve in 100g of water. At that same temperature, we see that amount 80g of ammonium sulfate will dissolve in the same amount of water. You can see how at the same temperature and the same amount of water, different compounds have different solubilities. A solute, when being dissolved, will dissolve until the solubility limit is reached. At this point we call the solution saturated. If we go back to our table here on the right, remember that at 20 degrees celsius, our solubility is 200g of sugar per 100g of water. That means if you go home and weigh 100g of water into a cup, you can dissolve 200g of sugar in there. If you keep trying to add more and more sugar, the sugar will not dissolve and will simply remain a solid at the bottom of your cup. One note before continuing, if you look at the y axis, this is the solubility in a specific amount of water, 100g. If we change the amount of water we use, we change the solubility. Using more water means we can dissolve more solute. Using less water means we can dissolve less solute. This dissolving process is an equilibrium, where our solute in solution is constantly changing back into a solid and then returning back into a solution. Whether our solute favors being in solution or favors being a solid depends on the temperature. For solids, generally, as the temperature of the solvent increases, our solubility also increases. As the temperature of our solvent decreases, the solubility of our solute also decreases. We can see that on the graph here on the right. We look at sugar again; as we go from left to right, the solubility of sugar increases dramatically.
if we take a saturated solution, in other words, a solution that can hold no more solute and we cool it, it becomes supersatured. in other words, there is not enough room in the solvent to hold all the solute. As a result, the solute must exit the solution. When solute exits the solution, it forms a solid, it forms crystals. This crystal lattice is highly ordered, as you can see here on the right. This regular ordered arrangement is very thermodynamically stable, because our solute molecules (presented here by the yellow triangles) fit together very well. This is the reason recrystallization is able to purify compounds. The stability the compound gains by forming a crystal only occurs because the solute molecules really want to stick together to form these structured crystals. If these blue impurities up top try to attach themselves to the crystals, you can see how because they are different shapes they would not fit into the lattice nearly as well as the remaining yellow triangles. Therefore these impurities remain in solution. Leaving us with pure solid crystal. This is exactly how making rock candy works. If you imagine these yellow triangles as sugar molecules, when making rock candy you boil water and you add sugar until the water is saturated at the boiling temperature. You then allow that water to cool forming a supersaturated solution and so the sugar crystallize out. One note before we continue. Recrystallization is not the same as precipitation. You may have heard of precipitation in general chemistry. Precipitation is when a solid is formed as a result of a chemical reaction. A recrystallization is not a chemical reaction. In a recrystallization you can take one compound you dissolve it and then you get the same compound as a solid. No chemical reaction has occurred. okay. so in a recrystallization we know that you have a supersaturated solution and then you allow it to cool this cooling lowers the solubility of the solute causing the solute to form crystals. How quickly can you let that solvent cool? It turns out that cooling slowly is much better. Here's why. Here on the left we have a number of turquoise squares. These squares are our solute. Here in the bottom left we are beginning to form a crystal, but we still have some of these squares in solution. We also have this red circle. This red circle represents an impurity. Lets see what happens as we wait and watch our solute continue to grow this crystal. We see that one of our squares has left the solution and attached itself to the crystal surface. Oh no! Our impurity has now attached itself to the crystal surface. Have we failed now that this impurity is attached to the crystal surface. No. Because remember crystallization is an equilibrium. This impurity has attached itself to the surface, but because it's a different shape different molecule it doesn't fit very well so it returns to the solution. What if it tries again? What if it attaches itself to another place on the crystal. It's still a different molecule still doesn't fit well into the lattice. Therefore it will once again drift away allowing our remaining solute molecules to attach themselves to the crystal surface and thus finish growing the crystal. Slow cooling allows this equilibrium process to occur forming large pure crystals. Let's say we cool quickly what would happen there? We have the same diagram on the right and now we're going to have our impurity attach itself to the crystal surface. This time however we're going to cool quickly. So before this impurity has time to return to the solution our solute molecules trap it into the crystal lattice. This is why slow cooling in a recrystallization is much better than quickly cooling. Quickly cooling a solution will result in the trapping of impurities into the crystal lattice which defeats the entire purpose of performing a recrystallization. Another consequence is we form small crystals. Small crystals are harder to isolate and are more likely to be impure. That brings us to the end of this webcast, to recap recrystallization is a method to purify solid compounds. Recrystallization works by manipulating the solubility of these solute compounds in a solvent. The solubility of solids in a solvent usually increases with temperature. By creating supersaturated solutions we can cause crystals to form. If done properly these crystals should be a pure solid compound. A recrystallization functions by dissolving the solid in a hot solvent to ensure that everything possible dissolves and then slowly cool in order to form our supersaturated solution to allow for pure crystal formation. As our desired compound crystallizes out the impurities we are trying to remove remain behind in solution.
Recrystallization- perform a new technique In this webcast, we will discuss the thought process behind performing a recrystallization. Depending on what kinds of impurities are present in your compound, you will utilize different techniques. Mechanically,a recrystallization is quite simple. You take your impure solid and you dissolve it in an appropriate hot solvent using as little volume of the solvent as possible. We'll talk about what an appropriate solvent is shortly. Once you have dissolved your impure solid in as little hot solvent as possible, you then allow that solution to slowly cool. As the solution slowly cools, the solubility of your solid will decrease and if you have performed the technique properly, result in crystals of your compound to begin to form. These crystals should be pure because the impurities should be left behind in solution. Now, this assumes that your impurities are soluble in this solution. In the event that you have insoluble impurities, you have to perform what is called a hot filtration. We will talk about soluble impurities and insoluble impurities shortly. But first, lets talk about solvent choice. On the previous slide, i said you had to use an appropriate solvent. There are a few criteria a solvent must meet in order to be useful in a recrystallization. First, the solvent cannot react with the compound, it must be what we call inert. Remember, in a recrystallization, no chemical reaction should occur. Second, your solvent should dissolve all of your compound when it is hot. It also must dissolve as little of your compound as possible when it is cold. Let us look at this graph on the right. If you look at the line for sugar, we see that, as our temperature increases, as our solvent in this case water gets hot, we dissolve a great amount of sugar. When we allow the water to cool back to roughly room temperature, we see that the solubility has decreased dramatically, meaning that most of our sugar should return to the solid phase. Therefore, water could be used to recrystallize sugar. In contrast, if we look at sodium chloride, this bottom line, we see that the solubility does not change very much as our temperature increases. therefore, water would be a poor solvent to try and recrystallize sodium chloride from. Finally, as a practical concern, our solvents should be volatile. In other words, easy to evaporate, easy to remove. The easier it is to dry your crystals, the better the recrystallization. Earlier, I mentioned insoluble impurities and soluble impurities. Insoluble impurities are impurities that do not dissolve in the solvent, even when the solvent is hot. As a result, these must be filtered out. We'll talk about how to do this shortly. Here on the right, we see a testable containing a solution of some kind and in the solution is suspended some solid. Because the solid will not dissolve in the solvent, this is an insoluble impurity. A soluble impurity is an impurity that dissolves in the hot solvent and is still dissolved when the solvent is cold. Here on the right, we see a testable containing a solution that clearly has no solid in it. In other words, everything in here is dissolved, is soluble. Finally, you can have partially soluble impurities. These partially soluble impurities are a sort of middle ground between soluble and insoluble. Because of this, they are often difficult to remove. For this course, you should concern yourself with primarily insoluble impurities and soluble impurities. Lets say we have a sample of a solid that contains both an insoluble impurity and a soluble impurity. What do we do in order to purify our solid? The first thing we do is remove the insoluble impurity through a hot filtration.
When removing an insoluble impurity, you attempt to dissolve all of your sample in hot solvent. What will happen is, your desired compound will dissolve, as well as any soluble impurities. The insoluble impurity however, because it is insoluble, will not dissolve and will remain a solid. You will then perform a hot filtration. In this lab experiment, you will use gravity filtration to remove the insoluble impurity. In the image on the right, we see an example of a hot filtration. We have an erlenmeyer flask containing a hot solution with an insoluble impurity and we are carefully pouring the hot solution through some filter paper. The solvent will pass through the filtered paper and will be collected in some collection vessel while the insoluble impurity will remain behind, caught by the filter paper. When performing a hot filtration, you do have to take care. The moment you take your flask off of your hot plate, your solution will begin to cool. If it cools too much, your desired compound will begin to form crystals, and those crystals will be caught in the filter paper. A hot filtration must be performed rapidly but also carefully. The glass will be hot and the solution will be hot. To slow the rate of cooling that will occur as your solution passes through the filter paper, you can pre-warm the filter paper and the funnel using pure hot solvent. Okay, so we have now successfully removed our insoluble impurity. Excellent. But we still have this soluble impurity to take care of, how do we do that? Now, we perform a recrystallization. When performing a recrystallization, you have an impure solid that you will dissolve in an appropriate, and we discussed what appropriate means previously, hot solvent- using as little volume as possible. Of course, as little volume as possible is not particularly specific. When you begin a recrystallization, how much volume of solvent do you use? A good rule of thumb is to add enough solvent to cover your impure sample. You then boil that solvent and try to dissolve your sample inside of it by swirling the container. If swirling the container and boiling the solvent is not enough to dissolve all of your sample, thats when you begin adding small amounts of more solvent. You continue this process until your entire sample dissolves after swirling and boiling solvent. As you can see here in this image in the bottom left, we have a solution of an impure solid, which has been dissolved in boiling solvent. You then allow your solution to slowly cool and as the solubility decreases, crystals will begin to form. Taking this solution to the left and allowing it to cool forms these crystals you see on the right. The yellow impurity that was present remains in solution while the solid crystals that formed are now pure. In this experiment, to collect the crystals you will form, you will use what is called a vacuum filtration. Lets say you were performing a recrystallization, you've done everything properly, but crystals just won't form. Why might this happen? Ideally, when you make a super saturated solution, the solute should immediately leave the solution and form crystals. Occasionally, something called metastability is reached, where the solute refuses to return to the solid phase and form crystals. To try and encourage crystal formation, or what we call induce crystallization, you can take a few actions. The first is to cool in ice. Once you put your solution in ice, you should then be patient. Your solution will not cool instantaneously. If you have waited an appropriate amount of time- five or ten min- You can then try to induce crystallization by scratching the inside of your flask with a spatula. By scratching the glass on the inside, you make a rough area. The rough area provides a place for crystals to begin growing. If you have taken all of these actions and crystals still won't grow, then it is likely that you have used too much solvent. If you have used too much solvent, all of your compound may be soluble in the cold solvent. To try and fix this, you should concentrate your solution. To do this, you should evaporate some of your solvent. To prevent this situation from happening when dissolving your impure solid in hot solvent, make sure your using small volumes of hot solvent to begin with, with thorough swirling.
To recap how to perform a recrystallization here is a flow chart first thing you ask yourself is when given a sample is your compound pure if it is pure, then you are done there is no need to perform a recrystallization of course, we are not going to give you a pure compound so, let say if your compound isn't pure what do you do? you dissolve your sample in hot solvent you then look at your solution are insoluble impurities present? do you see solids still? if yes, you perform a hot filtration to remove those insoluble impurities you then take the solution that pass through and allow it to cool and form crystals if there weren't any insoluble impurities, then there is no need to perform a hot filtration you go straight to allowing your solution to cool to form crystals then you look at your solution and ask yourself okay, are crystals being formed? if not, then you have to induce crystallization either by cooling the solution, being patient, or scratching the inside of the flask if you used too much solvent, you may have to concentrate your solution by boiling off some solvent once crystals begin to form, you then collect your crystals via filtration in this case, you will be using vacuum filtration if crystals formed without any induction then you simply filter to collect them and then you will determine the purity if your compound is pure, then you are done if you compound is still impure, then you go through this process again and repeat until your compound is pure that brings us to the end of this webcast to recap the solvent used in the recrystallization is crucial to success your solvent must dissolve the entirety of your sample when hot and as little as possible when cold the type of impurity or impurities present within your sample determines what procedures to perform an insoluble impurity is removed through the use of a hot filtration a soluble impurity is removed through a traditional recrystallization to ensure sufficient crystal formation, you should use as little solvent as possible to dissolve the entirety of your compound when it is hot and then carefully chill your solution as much as possible in order to minimize the solubility of your compound in the solvent .
That tells whether the impurity 2 is a soluble impurity. so, how are you going to separate impurities 1 and 2 from A? well we know impurity 1 is an insoluble impurity. therefore, we can remove that from that from a hot filtration. if we take our sample, dissolve as much as we can in hot solvent, impurity 1 will remain a solid. and we can remove that through a hot filtration. if we take the solution that passes through the filter paper, which contains compound A and impurity 2, we know that impurity 2 is a soluble therefore we should be able to remove that through a recrystallization. Lets go ahead and say that we have removed impurity 1 through our hot filtration. we now have compound A and impurity 2 still in solution. we preform a recrystallization and we successfully purify coumpound A. how much of A did we lose in this process if we used 100mL of solvent? Well we know that solubility of Compound A, we know that at the cold temperature 25 degrees Celsius, 1.0 grams of A will dissolve in 100 milliliters of water. We are using 100 milliliters of water. Therefore, 1.0 grams of A is still dissolved in solution after the recrystallization. Let me say this again: we know the solubility of A via the solubility table and we know the volume of solvent used from the question, telling us the amount of A left in solution. Okay, so that's not so bad, we're not leaving that much behind. But let's say I don't want to leave 1 gram behind, I want to minimize the amount of material that I cannot retrieve in this recrystallization. How can we do this? In other words, how can we maximize our recovery? Well remember, there are two things we can do: we can try to cool our solution using an ice bath. Lets say we don't have access to ice or anything else that can chill our solution, what else can we do? we can also change the amount of solvent we use. Just how much solvent do we need to ensure that all of impurity 2 stays in solution at the cold temperature? to answer that question, we again look at the solubility table. we know that we have 1.0 grams of Impurity 2 in our sample. From the solubility table, we know that 1.5 grams of impurity 2 dissolves in 100 milliliters of water. That means to dissolve 1 gram of impurity 2 we need 67 milliliters of H2O. To say this again, we know that we have 1 gram of impurity 2. I want to use just enough solvent to keep impurity 2 dissolved at the cold temperature. By minimizing the amount of solvent used, we lower the amount of compound A we leave behind. We know the amount of impurity 2 in our sample and the solubility of impurity 2 in water, our solvent, we calculated the volume of water needed to dissolve all of our impurity at the cold temperature. How much of compound A is left behind using this volume of water? Well, we're using 67 milliliters of water, we know the solubility of A from the solubility table, do some quick math, we leave behind 0.67 grams of Compound A. This is significantly less than the 1 gram of Compound A using 100 milliliters of water. By using less solvent, we still remove all of Impurity 2 while minimizing the amount of Compound A we leave behind. That brings us to the end of this webcast. To recap, recrystallization effectiveness is determined by the purity of the isolated compound and how little compound was lost in the solvent through the use of percent recovery. You will assess the purity of a compound via a melting point analysis in this experiment. we will talk about melting points more in the melting point webcasts. Percent recovery is a measure of how much compound was recovered from the initial impure sample. You can increase your percent recovery using colder temperatures when chilling your solvent and/or using a lower volume of solvent.
Bromination of an alkene. In the previous experiment, you learned out how to use recrystallization to purify a solid compound and how to perform a melting point analysis to characterize that compound. In this experiment, you will perform a reaction, the bromination of an alkene, and then you will use the techniques of recrystallization and melting point analysis to purify and then learn something about the resultant product of that reaction. A reaction mechanism is a step-by-step diagram of how bonds are formed and broken during a chemical reaction. These mechanisms show how electrons move. Not how atoms move. If you are concurrently taking CHEM 232, you will have been recently introduced to reaction mechanisms in the context of substitution reactions. You will not yet have covered bromination of alkenes. That's okay, in fact, that's actually ideal. This experiment will show one way to identify the mechanism of reaction when we don't know what the mechanism is yet. The understanding of a reaction mechanism is important. By understanding the mechanism, we can make changes to the reaction conditions in order to do things such as optimize the yield of the reaction and increase the purity of the product of the reaction. Mechanism determination is a non-trivial problem. It is often quite difficult to see what the starting material turns into as it goes from starting material to product. Tools that are available to organic chemists when determining the mechanism of an reaction include using spectroscopy to view intermediates. During a reaction, intermediates tend to not last very long. But oftentimes we can use things such as infrared spectroscopy or NMR spectroscopy to view those intermediates before they disappear. We can use kinetics to see how changing the concentrations of various reagents affects the rate of the reaction. As you saw with the absolute configuration determination experiment, the concentration of base had no effect on the rate of the reaction. What that tells us is that the base is not present in the rate-determining step. The base not being used in the rate-determining step tells us something about the mechanism. Another tool we can use is an analysis of product distribution. If we have two potential mechanisms, and mechanism one provides one product and mechanism two provides a different product, if we can identify which product is actually made, we can identify the mechanism that is what we call 'operative' in the reaction. And it is this type of analysis that you will be performing in this experiment. You will perform a bromination reaction on an alkene. There are several potential mechanisms for this reaction. By figuring out what the product of the reaction is, you will then be able to determine the mechanism of the reaction. If you're concurrently taking CHEM 232, you will not yet have discussed the bromination of an alkene. As a result, we will discuss only in the fundamental aspects of this reaction. In a bromination reaction, you have an alkene (such as this one here in the bottom left). This alkene reacts with bromine to attach a bromine atom to each carbon that had been part of the alkene. Notice how the double bonds in the phenyl ring are still present. Remember what i said at the very beginning of this course. Alkenes and phenyl rings undergo different chemical reactions. The solvent in this reaction is acetic acid. The presence of acid helps accelerate this process. Molecular bromine, B R two, is quite toxic and quite dangerous to handle. As a result, we will not be using molecular bromine itself. Instead, we will be using pyridinium tribromide, which you can see here in the upper left. Pyridinium tribromide is a salt that is quite stable and much less dangerous than molecular bromine. When you take pyridinium tribromide and you dissolve it in a solvent (such as acetic acid), pyridinium tribromide, in an equilibrium, forms pyridinium bromide and molecular bromine. Now the key here is this is an equilibrium process. The equilibrium greatly favors the left side of this equation. This means that we have only a small amount of molecular bromine present at any given time. If we only have a small amount of molecular bromine present, will this reaction be slow? Well no. Because remember Le'Chatlier's principle. If you take this molecular bromine, and use it in the bromination reaction, the equilibrium up here has to shift to the right in order to make more bromine. To recap this slide, molecular bromine is quite dangerous. Instead of using molecular bromine, you will use pyridinium tribromide, a salt. When dissolved in solvent, this salt produces pyridinium bromide and molecular bromine in small quantities. However, enough molecular bromine is present to allow the bromination in this alkene to occur. As the bromine is consumed, this equilibrium shifts to the right to make more molecular bromine. The particular alkene you will use is what is called tranexamic acid. There's nothing special about this particular alkene, it is just an easy to use reagent.
The question in this experiment is by what mechanism does this bromination reaction occur? There are 3 potential mechanisms that we can propose for this reaction. The first, is the mechanism that proceeds through what we call anti-addition. Anti means that the bromine atoms attach themselves on opposite sides of the double bond. If you have trouble visualizing this, don't worry we'll see an example of this on the next slide. The second potential mechanism is one that proceeds through what we can a syn addition. Syn means that the two bromine atoms are added from the same side of the double bond. And then finally, the reaction could proceed through a mechanism that produces a mixture of both anti and syn additions. You are going to figure out which of these mechanisms is the correct one. And you will do this through analyzing the products of the reaction. Here on the slide we see the product of this reaction, the dibrominated compound. What we haven't drawn, however, is the stereochemistry on this molecule. You know, that each carbon atom, the bromines are attached to is a stereo center. And it turns out that each proposed mechanism produces different stereochemistry. Let's see that now. Possibility 1 was anti-addition. And if you recall, anti means coming from opposite sides of the double bond. Here we have the bromide atoms where the bromide atom on the left came from the top of the double bond and the bromide atom on the right came from the bottom of the double bond. Because this is not an enantioselective reaction, if mechanism 1, possibility 1 is the correct one we would expect to see this compound plus its enantiomer formed in the chemical reaction. Possibility 2, the syn addition, would produce this product. Where both of these bromide atoms came from the top of the double bond. And as of possibility one, because this is not an enantioselective reaction, we will make this compound and the enantiomer of this compound if mechanism 2 is the correct mechanism. And finally with possibility 3, if the mechanism is a mixture of syn and anti addition products we will see a mixture of all of these compounds. To recap this slide, each potential mechanism produces a different product mixture. If we can identify which product mixture is actually made as a result of the reaction, we can identify the mechanism of the reaction. The procedure for the experiment is operationally quite simple. You will take your alkene, your trans-cinnamic acid and you will dissolve it in glacial acetic acid. At room temperature this is a slow process, so you will use some gentle heating to make it dissolve faster. Once all of the trans-cinnamic acid is dissolved, you will then add your pyridinium tribromide to your reaction mixture and then boil the solution for 15 minutes. Note: this is not heating for 15 minutes. You start the 15 minutes once it begins boiling. Not once you begin heating. After the 15 minutes have passed you will allow your reaction mixture to cool and your product will precipitate out as the mixture cools. You will collect your product via a vacuum filtration. You will take another technique, recrystallization, and purify your product. And finally, once your product is purified you will analyze the product via a melting point analysis. Through that analysis you will identify which product you have. You can do this because each potential product has a different melting point. The anti-addition product, possibility 1, has a melting point of 202-204 degrees celsius. Some of you may be thinking, but I have a mixture of this compound and its enantiomer. Shouldn't I see a melting point depression? The answer is no. Enantiomers of a compound do not act as impurities. Therefore, even though I have a mixture of enantiomers I will still see a narrow, non-depressed melting point. Possibility 2, the syn addition, has a much lower melting point. 93.5-95 degrees celsius. Remember, the reason that possibility 1 and possibility 2 have different melting points is because they are diesteriomers. Diesteriomers do have different melting points because they are different compounds. Knowing that, what would you expect the melting point for possibility 3 to be? Where we have a mixture of syn addition and anti-addition. You should think about what melting points would be reasonable for this situation. This is the first experiment where you will perform a chemical reaction and then isolate the product of that chemical reaction. When making a new compound, it is important to assess how efficient, how effective that reaction was. The percent yield of a reaction is a measure of how much product we actually made compared to how much product we should have made based on the amount of starting materials we used in the reaction. In short, it is our actual yield, what we physically have in our possession at the end of the reaction over our theoretical yield, what we should have made based on the amount of starting materials we used. Remember to calculate the percent yield of a reaction, you have to identify the limiting reagent. The limiting reagent is the starting material that gets used up first. It limits the amount of product you can make. When finding your limiting reagent for this experiment, assume that all pyridinium tribromide turns into molecular bromine, Br2.
Acid-Base Extraction- Background In this webcast, we will discuss what an acid-base extraction is and how it works. An extraction is a purification technique that separates solids and/or liquids via partitioning between two phases based on solute solubility. If you've ever made coffee or tea, you have performed an extraction. In coffee beans and tea leaves are numerous goodies, such as caffeine. In the case of coffee, you add hot water to ground coffee beans. You now have two phases, the solid coffee beans and the liquid water. The caffeine and other desirable compounds in the ground coffee beans move from the solid coffee beans into the liquid water. They partition themselves and in doing so, separate themselves from everything else. In organic chemistry, we typically use what are called liquid-liquid extractions. A liquid-liquid extraction is an extraction that uses two immiscible solvents. We will talk about what immiscible means on the next slide. Usually, one of these solvents is aqueous, or made of water, and the other solvent is organic. The word immiscible here is quite important. Miscible and immiscible describe the ability of two liquids to mix with each other. Miscible liquids are liquids that will mix with each other in all ratios. An example of two miscible liquids is water and ethanol. Here on the slide, you see a bottle of vodka, which contains water and ethanol. This mixture appears to be homogeneous, we don't see any separations or barriers within this bottle. In contrast, an immiscible mixture is when you have two liquids that will not mix, will separate. Sometimes it depends on what ratio of liquids you are using. An example of this is would be this balsamic vinaigrette. In balsamic vinaigrette you have water and you have oil. If you take a bottle of balsamic vinaigrette and leave it sitting on a table for awhile you'll see the two liquids separate and form layers. Here is a visual demonstration of an extraction that will show why using immiscilbe solvents is required. Here I have two compounds, yellow triangles and red squares, and lets put those compounds into this container. I'm now going to add some kind of solvent, lets say an organic solvent of some kind. This solvent will dissolve my compounds. What I'll l add next is an aqueous layer, a layer made of water, and what will happen as a result of this is some of my compounds will prefer the aqueous layer over my organic layer. And as a result, they will move to the aqueous layer, In this case, my red squares favor the aqueous layer. The only reason this works is because these two liquids don't mix. If the two liquids mixed, you'd have a single layer and there would be no way to separate the compounds. One note before I continue: you will notice that not all of my red squares have entered the aqueous layer. That is because compounds will always have some solubility in some solvents. What determines which layer a compound favors is the compound's polarity in comparison to the polarity of the solvents. The general golden rule for an extraction is 'like dissolves like'. We know that water is a polar solvent. Based on the golden rule that we just discussed, that means polar compounds will prefer to dissolve in water. The reason for this as you can see here in this diagram polar compounds have partial charges. We know that in water all of our oxygens are delta negative and all of our hydrogens are delta positive. By dissolving polar compounds, such as ions, we can arrange the charges in a favorable manner that is energetically stable. As you can see here on the left, the positive ion is surrounded by partially negative oxygens whereas the ion on the right, which is negative, is surrounded by partially positive hydrogen atoms. In contrast, organic solvents which range from nonpolar to moderately polar tend to dissolve neutral non-charged compounds up to moderately polar compounds. Most organic compounds fall in this category of neutral to moderately polar.
Acid/Base Extraction- Calculations. Up to this point, we have discussed acid/base extraction in qualitative terms. For example, we know that if we have an acidic compound in a mixture, we should use a basic aqueous solution to convert it into a salt and extract it. What we will discuss in this webcast is the quantitative aspects of an acid/base extraction. When you have a mixture and you're extracting a compound just how much of that compound is transferred into the new layer? Previously, I mentioned the partition coefficient 'K'. I described it to you as a measure of how at equilibrium a compound will prefer one layer over another. Let's say when separating a mixture, I want to get as much of a particular compound out as possible. How much solvent should I use when doing so? To answer that question, I can use K. Remember that K is the ratio of the amount of compound in the organic layer over the amount of compound in the aqueous layer. Where the amount of compound is measured in grams of compound over volume of solvent. If we take this and substitute it into K, we get this expression down below. Which with some rearrangement, produces this final expression here on the right side. Do not memorize this equation, if you need it, it will be provided for you. What this equation allows us to do is if I know K, and three of these variables, I can solve for the fourth one. Let's have an example of that. Let's say I want to perform what is called a single extraction. I know that the partition coefficient for compound A between ether and water is 8.5. What I want to know is how much of A would be extracted, in other words, how much will be present in the organic layer from a solution that contains 10 grams of A in 100 milliliters of water if I use 100 milliliters of my organic solvent. Let's look at this equation that we just discussed. I know K, cause that's given to me by the question. I know the volume of aqueous solution because that's given to me by the question. And I know the volume of organic solvent because that is also given to me by the question. And what I want is the amount in the organic layer. But I can't solve for that yet because I don't know the amount in the aqueous layer. Ok, so I'm missing information, can I find that information somewhere? Yes I can, cause I also know that the total amount of compound has to equal the amount in the organic layer plus the amounts in the aqueous layer. So if I do some rearrangement, the amount in the aqueous layer is the total amount of compound minus the amounts in the organic layer. It turns out, that I know the total amount of compound A, cause that's given to you in the question. So if I take this equation and plug it in, for N aq, I get this expression down below. I know K, I know N total, I know V aq, I know V org, and so, I can solve for N org. If I do some algebra and isolate N org, all I need to do is plug in the various values to give me a value of 8.95 grams in the organic layer. Pretty simple. Key points in this example. One, is recognizing what each of these variables mean. Two, is recognizing that I can replace N aq with N total .
minus n org allowing me to use all the information in this question to solve for n org. Now let us consider the amount that we extracted 8.95 grams is almost 95 percent of the material. But let's say almost 90 percent isn't good enough what could I do to extract more material. One thing you could do is increase the amount of organic solvent you use hopefully it makes sense that by using more organic solvent we would extract more material. But that becomes quite inefficient is there a better way to increase the amount of material I extract. The answer is yes what we can do is use multiple extractions. In this example I'm using 25 milliliters of my organic solvent ether but I'm using 25 milliliters 4 times. This is the same total volume as I used in the previous example only now I'm using it portion wise. In this case I will use this equation where the amount in the aqueous layer is equal to the total amount of compound multiplied by combination of the volumes of solvents and the differentiation coefficient raised to this letter R. Where r is the number of extractions of equivalent volume and this is important this equation is only valid if the portions of solvents you use is all the same volume. Ok lets look at what i have, I still know n total from the question I know vq still again given to me by the question. I know K given to me by the question and I know the volume of the organic layer also given to me by the question. And finally I know r which is 4 again given to me by the question. So all i do is plug in the appropriate values. Get a value of 0.105 grams but we're not done. What is the question asking of us. What it wants to know is the mass of a that would be extracted. It wants to know the mass of a in the organic layer. What did we just solve for? We just solved for neq what we want is norg. But we know that norg is equal to the total amount of compound minus the amount in the aqueous layer. So we take 10 grams of compound minus 0.105 grams which we just solved for we get a value 9.895 grams. Notice how this value is much higher than what we just solved for on the previous example. Previously we extracted just under 90 percent of compound a here we extract almost 99 percent of compound a what makes this so impressive is that we used the same volume of organic solvent. All we changes is how we used the volume in the first example we used it all at once in this example we used it portion wise. The take home message is that multiple extractions always extract more compound than a singe extraction of the same volume. One more thing before I continue. I've shown you 2 examples using 2 different equations I can ask you to solve for any variable in those equations. Be able to use to solve for any variable I ask for. This includes solving for r. To solve for r you'll need to use some basic logarithmic rules. make sure you review those rules because you will be asked to solve for r at some point. That brings us to the end of this webcast to recap the partition coefficient of a compound is a measure of which solvent of a pair of solvents used in an extraction of a compound prefers. When trying to extract a compound from a mixture, multiple extractions of equivalent volume are more efficient than a single extraction of the same total volume. You have seen several mathematical equations in this webcast do not memorize those equations you will be provided them if you need them but do be able to solve for any variable within those equations.
Acid/Base Extraction- Case Study. In the previous webcast, we discussed the fundamentals of an acid/base extraction. In this webcast, we will discuss the thought process of using those fundamentals to decide what aqueous solutions to add when you are given a mixture of compounds that you are trying to separate. Consider a mixture that contains these three compounds. On the left, we have a molecule that contains an amine, on the right we have a molecule that contains a carboxylic acid, and in the middle we have a molecule that contains neither of those functional groups. Our goal is to separate these three compounds via acid/base extraction. How do we do this? The first thing we do is we dissolve these three compounds in some kind of organic solvent. This example uses methyline chloride, although we can use any organic solvent that will dissolve all three of these compounds. Now that we've done that, we will add an aqueous solution of some kind. The question is what kind of aqueous solution are we going to add? The answer to that question depends on which compound you want to react with first. This table shows us what extracting agent to use, what aqueous solution to use, to remove a particular type of compound, the substance we are extracting from a mixture. This top section contains acids: strong carboxylic acids, weak carboxylic acids, and phenols. If we want to convert these acids into salts, we have to add a base. By taking an acid and reacting it with a base, we convert it into a salt. Now, in principle, any base will react with any acid, but that's not entirely true. Here at the top, we have a strong carboxylic acid. That means we can use a weak base such as sodium bicarbonate to react with it. Down below, we have a phenol. A phenol is a relatively weak acid. A weak base like sodium carbonate is not strong enough to react with this weak acid to any significant extent. As a result we need to use a stronger base such as sodium hydroxide in order to convert our phenol into a salt. This fact can be incredibly useful. Let's say I have a mixture of a strong carboxylic acid and a phenol. You might think, well they're both acids, there's no way I can separate them using acid/base extraction, but that's not true. If I have a mixture of a strong carboxylic acid and a phenol, by adding a weak base such as sodium bicarbonate aqueous solution, only the carboxylic acid will be converted into a salt, leaving the phenol behind. Let's say we had a base such as an amine. How can we separate amines from a mixture? Well, if amines are basic, we should add an acid. A common acid to use is hydrochloric acid, although many other acids are also useful. By taking an amine and reacting it with an acid, we convert it into a salt. Okay, so I know that if I want to remove an acid, I should add a basic aqueous solution. If I want to extract a base, I should add an acidic aqueous solution. Let's say I want to remove the base first. I don't have to, but in this example let's say I'm removing my base first. I know that to do so I need to add an acidic aqueous solution. If I add an acidic aqueous solution, what should happen to this mixture? Well, the carboxylic acid, being an acid, will not react with the acid I'm adding, so that will remain the same. The central compound, which contains no acidic and no basic functional groups, will all similarly not react and will remain the same. However this amine, being a basic functional group, will react with the acid.
to protonate the amine producing this salt. this salt is very polar as a result our compound moves from the organic layer to the more polar aqueous layer. so what happens next well we have two layers we separate the organic and the aqueous layers. we then put this aqueous layer aside and consider what we have left in the organic layer. what i could to separate these two compounds. i know that i have a carboxylic acid in this mixture so what happens if i add a new second aqueous solution that is basic. like before, this compound on the left will not react with anything and so will remain as is in the organic layer. In contrast, the carboxylic acid will react with the base it will be deprotonated in order to form this salt. this salt is very polar so our carboxylic acid moves from the organic layer to the aqueous layer. and like before, we no separate the organic and the aqueous layers. now, let us recap exactly where everything is at this moment. We have one aqueous layer that is acidic this layer contains our amine salt we have a second aqueous layer that is basic this layer contains our carboxylic acid salt. The third layer, that is our organic layer that contain our neutral organic compound. Okay, so we have successfully separated all of these compounds. now let us discuss how to get them back. How to remove them from their solutions. The organic layer is the easiest layer to deal with. This compound is the only compound currently in the organic layer. organic solvents are easy to remove. you might think ok we jsut evaporate the solvent and we recover this compound but its not quite that simple. many organic solvents can mix with trace amounts of water. these trace amounts of water will contaminate your isolytic compound so you have to remove that water before we evaporate the solvent. You can do that by adding what is called a drying agent. a drying agent is a solid that will absorb trace amounts of water. examples of drying agents will include magnesium sulfate and sodium sulfate. You will add small amounts of drying agent until the solid becomes flocculent or loosely clumped. When you have added enough drying agent such that the added solid no longer clumps you know your solvent is dry. You will then remove your drying agent through a simple gravity filtration. And then finally the solvent will be removed and you will collect your compound by evaporating the solvent using a machine called a rotor evaporator. You will not be using a roto evaporator your TA will. Recovering the original amine and the original carboxylic acid requires a different process. Currently in our aqueous solutions we have the salts of those compounds. If we were to simply evaporate the water, what we would get is the salts. But I don't want these salts I want the original compounds. What can I do to allow that to happen. What we will do is neutralize the solutions. To the acidic aqueous layer, you will add some base. This base will deprotonate the salt. In contrast in the basic aqueous layer you will ad some acid. This will protonate the salt. The end result of this neutralization is the original compounds. But you may have noticed something. These compounds are not particularly polar therefore they are not soluble in water. so what happens when we convert these salts back to the organic compounds that are insoluble in water.. They will precipitate out and form a solid which you will then collect via filtration. to recap this extraction demonstration we have successfully separated three compounds using their affinity for organic and aqueous solutions as we change their polarity. We separated the amine by adding an acidic aqueous layer that converted it into a salt thus extracting it into the aqueous layer. Then to collect it, we precipitated it out by neutralizing the aqueous solution. The carboxylic acid was separated in a similar manner except for the carboxylic acid we added a basic aqueous solution. This converted our carboxylic acid into a salt extracting it into the aqueous solution and then we collected it by neutralizing the aqueous solution causing it to precipitate out. This neutral non fictionalized carbon here on the right, never reacted with any acid or any base, as a result its polarity remained unchanged throughout this entire process so it remained in the organic layer and then it was collected by evaporating the organic layer.
You'll perform a similar extraction process in the lab how will you confirm that you successfully separated your mixture. First you will collect all of the precipitated products with vacuum filtration you will then dry your products thoroughly and then you will take melting points you will compare your melting points to the known melting points of the pure compounds. Remember that we dry thoroughly because any residual solvent will lower the melting point of your sample. Some practical notes on performing the extraction. On the right is what we call a separatory funnel. This is what you will use in the lab, the separatory funnel has several components. You have this glass body in which your liquids will be contained, you will have this cap up top and you will have this stopcock here at the bottom. The stopcock is a valve that regulates liquid flow through the vessel. When addin your liquids to the separatory funnel, make sure the stopcock is closed. In principle for an extraction you only need two layers to be in contact with each other however this is a very slow process. TO increase the rate at which compounds move between layers, you will vigorously shake the separatory funnel. When doing this make sure you have a firm grip on the cap. If the cap comes off you will spill liquid all over yourself and your hood. In this shaking process you will create gas. This gas will create pressure inside he vessel. Eventually, enough pressure will be built up to cause this cap to pop off potentially spilling your liquid. To prevent this from occurring you must frequently vent your separatory funnel. To do this you will hold the separatory funnel upside down with a firm grip on the cap, then you will open the stopcock to release any built up pressure. When it come time to separate these layers what you will do is you will remove this cap, open the stopcock and allow the liquid to flow through until the entire bottom layer is removed. Removing the cap is important. If you don't remove the cap, there is no air to replace the liquid flowing out and as a result not flow will occur. You will be dealing with clear, colorless solutions. Every layer will be colorless. Make sure that your layers are clearly labeled and nothing is thrown away until you have obtained all three compounds. This is to prevent you from accidentally throwing away a layer that you still need. When neutralizing your aqueous layers, use pH paper to ensure that you have completely neutralized the layers. And finally, occasionally, you may create what is called an emulsion when shaking an organic solvent in an aqueous solution. Sodium hydroxide and methylene chloride are a common pair that causes emulsions to form. An emulsion is what you see here. Its when two layers refuse to separate from each other completely. To break up this emulsion swirl or gently rock the separatory funnel. This brings us to the end of this webcast. To recap, compounds in the mixture can be separated through the careful additions of aqueous solutions if the compounds in that mixture poses certain functional groups. In particular, for an acid base extraction, we need our compounds to poses acidic or basic functional groups that can chemically react with the acids or bases we were using in aqueous solutions. Different strengths of acidic or basic aqueous solutions can be used to separate compounds containing the same type of functional groups in certain situations. For example, a strongly acidic compound of a mixture can be separated from a weakly acidic compound in that same mixture by using an appropriate basic aqueous solution. This basic aqueous solution must be strong enough to deprotonate the strongly acidic compound in a mixture but not strong enough to deprotonate the weakly acidic compound in the mixture. At the end of an extraction, you want to recover the original compounds. Any salts created during an extraction should be converted to their neutral forms through neutralizing the aqueous solutions that they are in.
Distillations- Background and Simple Distillations. In this webcast we will discuss what solutions are and how they work. We will discuss the [gibberish] substitution experiment a simple distillation. Distillation is a method for the purification of liquids and the reason is exclusively for liquids is because it separates compounds base on their boiling points. In a distillation, compounds undergo a series of phase changes. In the most basic of distillations, your liquid will be converted into a gas, and then will returned to being a liquid. Hopefully more pure than when it started. In this particular experiments you will be performing what we call a simple distillation. Simple distillations are are quick to perform. However, they are only appropriate for mixtures that contains compounds of large differences in boiling points that larges at least 40 degrees Celsius. During distillation, you will be recording the boiling point of the liquid as they distill. In the same way that a melting point is characteristic of a compound the boiling point is also characteristic of a compound. You can use the boiling point of your compound as it distills, you try and identify it. The distillation apparatus you will set up in this experiment is the most complex apparatus you will have to use in this course so far. This image shows a completely set-up distillation apparatus with one exception: remember to include the metal hose clamps to secure the connections between your hoses and the condenser, which are not shown here. In distillation you will place your liquid into this round bottom flask, often called a distillation flask or the distillation port. The liquid in this round bottom will be heated using this hot plate and the aluminum block until it begins to boil. When it boils it will be converted into a vapor and travel up the apparatus, until it reaches this intersection. At this intersection we had this metal rod. This metal rod belongs to a thermometer. Your vapor will touch this thermometer, which will light to record the temperature of the vapor, which is the same as the boiling point of the liquid. Your vapor once at this intersection will then travel down to the condenser, hitting the cool walls and condensing back into a liquid, which you will collect here at the end. Before beginning your distillation,you must have your TA check your apparatus. An improperly set-up apparatus can become a pressure vessel, which can explode. There will be points associated with your TA checking your apparatus in this experiment. Additionally, you will be using heat and as always remember the hot glass looks just like cold glass. Do not touch any part of your apparatus until you know that it is safe to touch. Thus far we've talked about the practical aspect of a distillation. Noe let us discuss how a distillation actually allows you to separate liquids. Let's start with the basics. If a distillation separates liquids based on their boiling points, we should talk about what boiling points are. The boiling point of a liquid is the temperature at which the vapor pressure of the liquid equals the external pressure. Consider a jar that I have poured some water into and then sealed the jar with a cap. The water in that jar will begin to evaporate and form a vapor in the space above the liquid. The pressure of that vapor is the vapor pressure. This graph shows the boiling point of a liquid as the vapor pressure of that liquid changes. On the x axis we have temperature in degree Celsius. On the y axis we have vapor pressure. Consider a situation where we are at atmosphere pressure, 760 torr. When our liquid boils the vapor pressure must also equals 760 torr. If we want to know at what temperature it boils we simply look at 760 torr, we move it to the right until we encounter this line, and then look to the x axis to find the boiling point, in this case looking to be about 62 degree Celsius. Now let us lower the atmosphere pressure by using, say, a vacuum. If we lower the atmospheric pressure to 380 torr, that means our vapor pressure now has to equal only 380 torr in order to begin boiling. The new boiling point would be if we go over to the right until we encounter this line, and then look down to the x axis, about 47 degree Celsius. the take on measures for this slide is that the higher the pressure the atmosphere, the higher the vapor pressure it needs to be. The higher the vapor pressure it needs to be, the higher the boiling point will be because we need more energy to reach that vapor pressure. This diagram here corresponds to a pure liquid. What if we start adding impurities?
If we add a non-volatile impurity, we get a decrease in vapor pressure. That means we need a higher temperature in order to get that liquid to boil. There are many components on this slide, let's talk about them one-by-one. A non-volatile impurity is an impurity that has no vapor pressure. In this diagram, sugar dissolved in water would be a non-volatile impurity. Why would adding a non-volatile impurity decrease the vapor pressure? One way to rationalize this is to consider the adding of the impurity as diluting the liquid. You may find it useful to review your notes on general chemistry if you are struggling with that idea. If we lower the vapor pressure, why would that increase the boiling point? Well remember, a liquid boils when the vapor pressure equals the atmospheric pressure. This red line is the vapor pressure of water as temperature increases. If atmospheric pressure is 760 torr, we have to heat water to 100 degrees celsius for it to boil. If we add a non-volatile impurity, our vapor pressure decreases. This blue line here shows the vapor pressure of water with our non-volatile impurity. At any given temperature, our vapor pressure is lower than the red line. As a result, the liquid has farther to go to reach 760 torr. We need a higher temperature to reach the same vapor pressure. Now, let's that instead of using a non-volatile impurity, we use a volatile impurity. For this experiment, let us assume that Raoult's Law holds. Raoult's Law states that the vapor pressure of an ideal solution is dependent on the vapor pressure of each chemical component and the mole fraction of those components present in the solution. What do I mean by ideal solution? An ideal solution is a solution in which the interaction between like molecules are the same as those between unlike molecules. Consider a solution that is a mixture of A and B. If this is an ideal solution, the A-A interactions are the same as the B-B interactions which are the same as the A-B interactions. Fortunately for us, many organic solutions approximate the behavior of an ideal solution. Now that we know what an ideal solution is, let us talk more about Raoult's Law. Let us consider an ideal, binary mixture of A and B. What Raoult's Law is saying is that the pressure of component A is equal to the vapor pressure of A if it was pure, times its mole fraction. Similarly, the vapor pressure of B in the mixture is equal to its pure vapor pressure times its mole fraction. The total vapor pressure should equal the vapor pressure of A added to the vapor pressure of B. Remember Dalton's Law of Partial Pressures from general chemistry? That's what this is. What these relationships state is that the vapor pressure of a component depends on how much of it there is. The higher the mole fraction of a component, the more its vapor pressure contributes to the total vapor pressure. The total vapor pressure is equal to the sum of the vapor pressures of the individual components. If we take this mixture of A and B, we can take these relationships and develop a phase diagram. In this phase diagram, we are plotting the temperature in degrees Celsius versus the mole fraction of one of our components, in this case component A. Our mole fraction, our old friend from the two-component phase diagrams from the melting point experiment. All the things we discussed about mole fraction back then still apply here. Make sure you read the x-axis carefully and read any questions carefully for what I'm asking for. In this phase diagram, we have two lines. We have a liquid line down below and we have a vapor line. The liquid line corresponds to the liquid mixture of A and B. The vapor line corresponds to the vapor we are making by boiling A and B.
Make sure you use the correct line for the questions that I will be asking you. To begin interpreting this phase diagram, lets start with a simple question. What is the boiling point of a mixture that is 80% A? To start, lets locate 80% A on the x-axis. Our x-axis is in Mol fraction of A. Therefore, a mixture that is 80% A will have a Mol fraction of 0.8 for A, which is right here. To find the boiling point of this mixture, I go up until I hit the liquid line. Once I've hit the liquid line, and then go all the way over to the y-axis to find the boiling point. Here looking to be about 102 degrees Celsius. Not too difficult. Now lets go deeper into interpreting this phase diagram. When distilling an ideal mixture, the vapor is richer in the lower boiling component. Now note that when I say richer, it doesn't necessarily mean a majority. When I say richer, I mean compared to the liquid. If our mixture contains 30% B and it is the lower boiling point component, the vapor that is formed from boiling our mixture might be 35% B or 40% B. It depends on the phase diagram. In this particular phase diagram, component B is the lower boiling point component. How do I know that? Lets look at the phase diagram. We see here on the x-axis that we are talking about the Mol fraction of A. When I have pure A, a Mol fraction of 1, I have a boiling point of about 110 degrees Celsius. In contrast, when I have a Mol fraction of A of 0, in other words pure B, I have a boiling point of about 78 degrees Celsius. That means that for this particular mixture the vapor I formed from boiling the mixture should be enriched in B. Lets say, I am starting with a mixture of this 80% A. And, 20% B. Like we had on the previous slide. That means I'm starting here on the right. What is in composition of the vapor being formed? Like before, we are going to go up until we hit the liquid line. To answer this question, we are not going to go to the y-axis. To answer this question, we are going to go until we hit the vapor line. And finally, once we've hit the vapor line, we return to the x-axis. And this here tells us the composition of the vapor. Looking to be approximately 58% A and 42% B. Lets talk through that again. I have some starting mixture 80% A 20% B, which is here on the x-axis. I go up until I hit the liquid line, and then I go to the left until I hit the vapor line. By returning to the x-axis, I find the composition of the vapor. Notice how my vapor is enriched in B. I've gone from 20% B in the liquid to 42% B in the vapor. Now lets say I take my vapor and condense it and turn it back into a liquid. What's the composition of that liquid? Well hopefully you find it easy to see that the composition of our collected liquid after the distillation has to be the same as the composition of the vapor. Because we are turning the vapor into the liquid we collect. So, at the end of the day, what do we have? We have a collected liquid that is enriched in B, but we are nowhere near having pure A or pure B. How useful is this technique, really? Well remember this technique is only used if there is a significant difference in boiling point at least 40 degrees, which we do not have in this mixture. For liquids with large differences in boiling point, a simple distillation works quite well, but for liquids with a small difference in boiling point, you have to use more advance distillation techniques. You will learn one of this fractional distillation in the next experiment. That brings us to the end of this webcast. To recap, distillation is a method to purify mixtures of liquid compounds. Separation occurs due to a difference in boiling points. The vapor produced from a distillation of a liquid mixture is always enriched in the lower boiling point component. Assuming your mixture is an ideal mixture. A mixture boils when the mixture vapor pressure equals the external pressure. For an ideal solution containing volatile impurities, the vapor pressure is dependent on two things: the pure vapor pressure of each component in the mixture, and the mole fraction of each component in the mixture.
Unimolecular Nucleophilic Substitution and Experiment Notes. In this webcast we will discuss the background of the unimolecular nucleophilic substitution or, Sn1 for short, reaction that you will perform. In this experiment, you will be performing a unimolecular nucleophilic substitution (or Sn1 for short) reaction. As you learned in CHEM 232, there are several different types of substitution reactions. And how they are different is their mechanism. To begin this webcast, we will have a review on substitution mechanisms. A bimolecular nucleophilic substitution (or Sn2 for short) reaction is a one-step concerted transition state that results in inversion of stereochemistry. Let us break this description into smaller pieces. Bimolecular means that in the rate-determining step, we have two species that are reacting with each other. In this particular example, we have this alkyl halide and this chloride ion. They react in a single step through what we call a concerted transition state. In this transition state we see that the chlorine atom, carbon atom bond is beginning to be formed at the same time that the carbon atom, bromine atom bond is being broken. This is what we mean by concerted. Everything is happening at once. The consequence of this mechanism is that our nucleophile, in this case our chloride ion, can attack this carbon from only one direction. From the opposite side of the bromine atom. This results in inversion of stereochemistry. Where in this example our bromine atom was pointing towards us, therefore our chlorine atom must be pointing away from us in the product because it had to attack from the opposite side of the bromine. Not all substitution reactions will proceed through this mechanism. If you would like an Sn2 reaction to occur, there are ways that you can bias the conditions to favor and Sn2 mechanism. Primary leaving groups tend to be excellent candidates for and Sn2 mechanism. Followed by secondary leaving groups and then finally by tertiary leaving groups. Where tertiary leaving groups for all intents and purposes do not undergo an Sn2 mechanism. This is easy to rationalize. If our nucleophile has to come from the backside of our leaving group, then the less stuff around the leaving group, the easier the reaction is. A tertiary leaving group has a lot of stuff around it, therefore it is very difficult for a nucleophile to attack it. In contrast, a primary leaving group is pretty open and so is easy to attack. Strong nucleophiles tend to favor an Sn2 mechanism. The reason for this is strong nucleophiles tend to react quickly. Why would reacting quickly help to favor an Sn2 mechanism? To help answer that, let's first discuss the Sn1 mechanism. An Sn1 mechanism is a unimolecular two-step mechanism that proceeds through a carbonyl cation intermediate. Consider this tertiary alcohol. We are going to add a little bit of acid. What this does is this turns this hydroxide, which is a terrible leaving group, into a good leaving group. And we'll talk more about this on the next slide. After being turned into a good leaving group, in this case water, we get spontaneous breakage of this carbon-oxygen bond, producing water and this carbocation intermediate. We have a carbon here, which has only three bonds. Therefore it is positively charged and we have this wide open empty orbital that is a fantastic electrophile for a nucleophile to attack. In this case, the bromide ion that formed after HBr was used to protonate the alcohol. Our bromide ion attacks the carbocation to form our final product. Let's talk about how this is a unimolecular mechanism but it's two steps. This might sound like a discrepancy, but these two adjectives describe different aspects of this mechanism. The unimolecular portion refers to the rate-determining step. Remember that in a mechanism, the rate-determining step is the slowest step. In an Sn1 mechanism, the ionization step, this first step to form the carbocation is the slow step. In this step, the only species present is this alcohol. Therefore, this is a unimolecular rate-determining step. This is in contrast to the Sn2 mechanism where the rate-determining step is the only step: the attack of the chloride onto our alkyl bromide. Where we have two species, therefore, this is a bimolecular rate-determining step. If we return to the Sn1 mechanism, this is a two-step mechanism, this is a two-step mechanism because it takes two steps to go to product. The first step is the ionization and the second step is the attack of the nucleophile onto the carbocation to form our final product.
Arostarton electrons are the lone pairs for bonds, and they end on either atoms or bonds. In this experiment, you'll be adding t-amyl alcohol, also known as 2-methyl 2-butanol, to your separatory funnel, and with it you'll be adding a concentrated hydrochloric acid aqueous solution. You will then shake these two things together to, what we call, affect the reaction, or in other words cause the reaction to occur. One note before we continue, t-amyl alcohol is a liquid. The concentrated hydrochloric acid solution is a solution. In your physical properties table you do need to record the number of moles being used for each component here. Remember that for a solution you have to use the concentration to find the moles, whereas for the liquid if you are measuring a volume you have to use the density and then the molecular weight. You will the=n identify which layer is which, one layer will be your aqueous solution,and one layer will be your product. Think back to the extraction experiment, how can you identify which layer is your aqueous layer and which layer is your organic layer if you don't know which one is which. Speaking of your extraction experiment, you will then use the skills you learned in that experiment to purify your product. You will perform what we call a wash. A wash is simply a type of extraction, specifically a wash is usually trying to remove impurities from the organic layer. The first wash you will perform is with aqueous NaCl solution, what we call brine. The purpose of using a brine solution is to remove any bulk water located in your organic layer. Remember organic layer always pick up at least a little bit of water. What a brine solution does is in the same way that biological cells can have water leave or enter them as a result of salt concentration inside or outside the cell, a brine solution is saturated in salt, and as a result, any water in the organic layer will leave the organic layer in order to dilute the salt in the aqueous layer. Once you have removed any bulk water present, you will then add in an aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate in order to remove any remaining acid. Remember, sodium bicarbonate is a base. Once you have performed these two washes, these two extractions, you will take the organic layer and completely dry it using drying agents, like you did in the extraction experiment. And finally you will purify your product via a distillation. At the end of the reaction it is likely that you will have a mixture of at least your product and unreacted starting alcohol. You will use distillation to separate them. A quick note on extraction before we continue: sodium bicarbonate being a base will react with HCl. In the process you will make CO2, which is a gas. It is very important that you are patient and add your sodium bicarbonate solution carefully, otherwise you may make a little volcano in your hood, producing a mes that you will have to clean up, like you see here on your right. When shaking your separatory funnel, you will be making CO2 which will build up pressure in your separatory funnel. As a result make sure you vent often to prevent dangerous build-up of pressure. Along those lines, when venting or even when just shaking, do not point the separatory funnel at anyone so that any gas released does not impact your fellow students. That brings us to the the end of this webcast. To recap, the mechanism of a substitution reaction depends on the type of the leaving group, the strength of the nucleophile, and the solvent. The stereochemical outcome of a substitution reaction is dependent on the mechanism. For the conserted Sn2 reaction, you get inversion of sterochemistry, whereas in the step-wise Sn1 mechanism, you go through a flag carbocation, resulting in a mixture of stereochemical products.
Distillations-Fractional Distillation and Non-Ideal Solutions. In this webcast we will discuss a new type of distillation, a fractional distillation. Fractional distillation will apply the same principal we used for a simple distillation just in a slightly different context. We will also discuss in this webcast the distillation of non-ideal solutions. This here is a fractional distillation set up. The set up is very similar to the simple distillation you assembled in the previous experiment. We have a round bottom flask which is where the reaction occurs, you have this condenser which cools the vapor into a liquid which allows you to collect it here at the end. In fact, the set up is identical to the simple distillation set up except for the addition of this fractionating column. This fractionating column is a glass tube which has been packed with steel wool. We'll talk about why steel wool is used in a little bit. Like with the simple distillation do not attach your round bottom to the column with a keck clamp, otherwise it may melt. Remember to use your metal hose clips to connect your hoses to your condenser. Something that is not shown here but you should do is insulate your fractionating column and your round bottom flask here. Over the course of this experiment the vapor that is boiling off here will travel up this column in order to be collected in the condenser. However, as your vapor travels up it will cool down. If it cools down too much it will condense in the column and then drip back down into the round bottom flask. To keep the vapor from cooling too quickly, you will coat the column and round bottom flask in aluminum foil. Like with the simple distillation experiment, there will be points associated with your TA checking your apparatus before you begin distilling. So this is a fractional distillation set up, what exactly does this fractionating column do for us? A fractional distillation is essentially a series of simple distillations. Consider this phase diagram which is identical to what you saw for simple distillations. In the webcast for that experiment, we showed how you can take a mixture that is 0.8 mole fraction of A and perform a simple distillation to collect a liquid that is more enriched in B. However we also discussed how this liquid is not particularly pure in either A or B. What you could imagine doing is taking that collective liquid and performing another simple distillation. Collecting that liquid, performing another distillation, and repeating that process until you received pure liquid, in this case, pure B. You might also imagine that performing six, seven, eight, or even more distillations in a row would be quite time consuming. But a fractional distillation allows us to do is essentially perform multiple simple distillation simultaneously, and we do this using that distillation column, also known as a fractionating distillation we saw on the previous slide. That distillation column is rated based on the number of what we call theoretical plates on that column. A theoretical plate corresponds to the effect of one simple distillation. What happens in the distillation column is the vapor you produce in the distillation will condense inside the column. It will then re-evaporate, travel further up the column and then condense again until it finally reaches the top of the column,. Essentially a plate is one cycle in this process. The purpose of the steel wool is to provide surface area for the vapor to condense. So in that distillation column, our vapor evaporates, condenses on that steel wool, evaporates again, condenses again, and continues until at the end we have a pure liquid. This may seem like ancient technology, and it is, but it is also incredibly useful because it is incredibly scalable. The gasoline you out in your car is produced from a fractional distillation. Here on the left we have an oil refinery, and these large metal tubes are very large fractionating columns, where raw petroleum is placed in the bottom of these columns and is allowed to fractionally distill up to the top. The inside of these towers is very similar to what we call a bubble-cap column, which we have here on the right, where our liquid mixture is here at the bottom, and we boil it until it begins to produce vapor. The vapor travels up the column, and condenses onto each of these plates. We recently used the term 'theoretical plates' is because we have physical plates for the vapor to condense on. So the vapor is formed, condenses, evaporates, condenses, and continues all the way up until it is collected up at the top.
Here is a visual demonstration of how the number of theoretical plates within any fractionating column affects the composition of the liquid collected during distillation. Here we have two different fractionating columns. We have the same amount of compound in the mixtures in the bottom of each column, but what is not the same is the number of plates inside of each column, The column on the left has 3 plates, the column on the right has 6 plates. Lets start distilling this mixture on the left. We are going to boil our liquid to make some vapor, then the vapor will condense on the first plate. It will heat up again, make vapor again, condense on the second plate, and then once more to condense on the final third plate. As you can see our final liquid mixture is enriched in the yellow circles, but its not pure, What if we used more plates? If we repeated this process using the column on the right we shall evaporate, and condense, evaporate and condense and continue that process until eventually at the top of our column we have pure yellow circles. More plates in a distillation column means you have what we call an efficient distillation. To put this in technical terms, the column on the right is more efficient that the column on the left. The column on the right has enough plates to give us pure product. The column on the left does not. And just to tie this back to that phase diagram I was showing you before, remember that each cycle corresponds to a plate. Now in your distillation column you will not have physical plates, you will instead have steel wool. This is why we use theoretical plates. Theoretical plates are a measure of the amount of surface area present within your column upon which your repeated condensation and evaporation cycles can occur. More theoretical plates means more simple distillation which therefor leads to more pure distillant, as you saw on the previous slide. The efficiency of a distillation column is measured in terms of height equivalent theoretical plates, or HETPs for short. We use HETPs because it makes measuring easier. We assume all plates are of equal heights. What this means is that having a smaller HETP corresponds to a higher efficiency column. Hopefully that makes sense, By having a smaller height, we can pack in more plates across the same distance, And remember an efficient column is a column with enough plates to give us a pure product. now there is a trade-off here. More theoretical plates gives us better separation, but it comes at the cost at time. The more plates we have, the more condensation and evaporation cycles we go through, and each of the cycles takes some amount of time. Lets take what we know and apply it to these two situations,. I have two fractionating columns here. I have on the left a vigreux column, where we have glass indentations providing surface area for vapor to condense on. On the right, you have the column you'll be using in this experiment packed with steel wool; Column on the left has an HETP of 10cm, while the column on the right has a HETP of 1.5 cm. Now lets consider this first question, what column would we use if we wanted to separate a mixture of pentane and octane, where there is greater than sixty degrees C difference in boiling points. So did you pick the more efficient column on the right, or the less efficient column on the left? I would choose the less efficient column on the left. This is a pretty large difference in boiling points. Therefor it should be pretty easy to separate them. That means that using a less efficient column is better because it'll give us pure compound without costing us much time. In contrast, lets consider the second question. Which column would we use to separate a mixture of methanol and water? This is a much smaller difference in boiling point, 35 degrees Celsius. Well, that's pretty close so I would probably bite the bullet and use the more efficient column on the right. It will take more time, but it is also guaranteed to give me pure compound. That brings us to the end of our discussion on fractional distillation. Now we will discuss the distillation of non-ideal solutions, We will define what a non-ideal solution is, and then we will see how the phase diagram for a non-ideal solution differs from the phase diagram of an ideal solution. Fear not, the same principles you learned to interpret ideal solution phase diagrams will be the same principals you will use to interpret non-ideal solution phase diagrams. Up until this point we have been discussing what we call ideal solutions. ideal solutions follow Raoult's Law, and give us phase diagrams that look like this, which you are hopefully comfortable with. Unfortunately, not all solutions are ideal solutions. Non-ideal solutions create what we call deviations from Raoult's Law.
These deviations result from different interactions between various components. Consider this situation interaction between like molecules for example A interacting with A and B interacting with B are stronger than unlike molecules, A interacting with B. The consequence of this is the vapor pressure of the mixture is higher than the ideal solution. To put it another way, A does not like mixing with B. So this mixture is easy to evaporate. You have a high vapor pressure. Because we have a higher vapor pressure than is ideal, we have what is called a positive deviation. The positive refers to the higher vapor pressure. The consequence of having a positive deviation is what we call a minimum boiling point azeotrope. Now consider this new phase diagram. The X axis is still some mole fraction of a compound and y axis is still temperature. Now in this phase diagram which deviates from Raoult's law we have two region. A region in the left and right that meets at this point here. This point is called azeotrope. It is the minimum boiling point azeotrope because it is the lowest boiling point on this diagram. An azeotrope is a mixture of two or more liquids whose composition cannot be changed via distillation. In this case we have a minimum boiling point azeotrope. What this means is that after distillation we collect an azeotrope and one pure compound. Let's talk why that is. Consider a situation where we are starting at a mixture that is 0.2 mole fraction of ethanol. Now while this phase diagram may look different from the other diagrams that you have seen, how you interpret it is exactly the same. Let's say you want to perform a simple distillation. In this case we go up to a liquid line then go over to the vapor line, the same way we have always done. Once we get to the vapor line, we go back down to the x-axis to collect our distilets, which is now is roughly 0.7 mole of ethanol. Ok that is not so bad. Again this is exactly what we have done in previous phase diagram for ideal solutions. Ok now let's say instead of doing a simple distillation I wanted to perform a fractional distillation. That means that I will keep going until eventually I can't go any further. and that occurs are the azeotrope. Notice how if I take the azeotrope and boil it, there's not where to move. I am at the lowest boiling point on this phase diagram. That means that I can no longer purify this mixture. The take home message from the first part is that for a positive deviation phase diagram, which produces a minimum boiling point azeotrope. The liquid you collect is an azeotrope. What about the liquid that you leave behind. Remember in distillation you don't boil the entire mixture. If you did then you will collect the same mixture back. If the vapor is becoming more enriched in ethanol, what about the composition of the liquid. That means the liquid must be less enrich in ethanol until eventually all the ethanol distills off leaving us with pure water. So while the vapor we form becomes more and more enrich in ethanol, the liquid we leave behind becomes more and more enrich in water until eventually we get pure water. What if we started on the other side of the azeotrope? If we distilled something over here, the vapor would become more enrich in water until eventually you reach the azeotrope again. But the liquid must be enrich in ethanol because the water is being boiled away to form the azeotrope. Now if we have a positive deviation from the Raoult's law you can imagine. Now we also have a negative deviation from Raoult's law. In this case interaction between unlike molecules are stronger than the interaction between like molecules. In this case mixture A holds onto B stronger than A hold on to A or B hold on to B. A mixture wants to stay a mixture and doesn't want to boil away. That means that our vapor pressure is lower than that of what it would be if it was an ideal solution. Notice how the negative adjective refers to the vapor pressure. For this type of solution forms a phase diagram that looks like this. The boiling point of the azeotrope is higher than the boiling point of pure A or B. How do we read this type of diagram? Well you read it the same way that you've read anything else. This phase diagram is for a mixture of formic acid and water. Let's say we start at 0.4 mole fraction of formic acid and we begin to of a fractional distillation.
Elimination reactions, the baeyer test, and experiment notes. In this webcast, we will discuss the chemical reaction aspects of the intermolecular elimination experiment. In the previous experiment, you performed a unimolecular nucleophilic substitution reaction. You know from chem 232 that substitution and elimination reactions are often in competition with each other. Let us begin this webcast by discussing that topic. From chem 232, you know that whenever you have the conditions for an elimination reaction, you also have the conditions for a substitution reaction. Where if we have, a substrate such as this, or a leaving group that's in blue in the presence of a nucleophile, we can have a substation reaction where our leaving group is substituted with a nucleophile. This top pathway leading to this product or our nucleophile can instead act as a base, deprotinate this red hydrogen here leading to this bottom pathway and the formation of an alkene product. This is an unfortunate reality. If we want a substitution we always have to worry about elimination and if we want elimination we always have to worry about substitution. Fortunately, there are things that we can do to bias one pathway, one reaction over another. For example, substation reactions can be encouraged using strong nucleophiles that are also weak bases. Examples include the chloride ion and the bromide ion. If you want an elimination reaction to occur, we can encourage that using weak nucleophiles that are strong bases. The tert-butoxide ion is an example of this type of base. If we use a strong nucleophile that is also a strong base, we can and will make a mixture of substitution and elimination products. The amounts of each depending on the type of leaving group present, whether it is primary secondary or tertiary. Why do particular reaction conditions result in particular reaction pathways being preferred? To answer that question, let's limit our analysis to only SN1 and E1 reactions. Let us assume that we have reaction conditions where we know we are going to go through a carbo cation like we see on this slide. We have a substrate over here in the presence of a nucleophile. This substrate is going to form a carbo-cation which can then go on to either the substitution product, the top pathway, or the elimination product via the bottom pathway. What determines which pathway is preferred is the transition state leading to those products. To discuss that, let us draw a reaction coordinate diagram. Remember that a reaction coordinate diagram is essentially a graph showing the progress of a reaction. Our reaction starts with our substrate and our nucleophile at some energy. We then form this carbo-cation which we know is a high energy intermediate. So we go from our starting energy to our carbo-cation. Now we have a choice. We can form either the substitution product or the elimination product. Let's go ahead and draw those pathways here. The substation product will be shown by this blue curve and the elimination product will be shown by this red curve. Some product at the bottom for substation and some product at the bottom here for elimination. You know that in order to go from one part of the reaction coordinate diagram to another, we have to pass through this transition state here at the top of the curve. And that means we need enough energy to go from our starting position here, in this case our carbo-cation, to get over this hump. With that knowledge you can see that it takes less energy to go over this red curve, leading to the elimination product, then it does to go over this blue curve leading to the substitution product. Because it takes less energy to go over the red hump the elimination reaction is faster, therefore the elimination product would be the major product based on this reaction coordinate diagram. Notice how the elimination product is higher in energy then the substitution product. The elimination product is less stable than the substitution product. That is completely irrelevant when determining which product is the major product. One note before we continue, this assumes that these reactions are irreversible, meaning that once we make product we can never go back to starting material. Because substitution reactions and elimination reactions are generally irreversible, it is the transition state energies that determine which product is the major product. By choosing different reaction conditions, we altar the height of these transition state energies to make sure that our desired product is the major product. Now let us apply that knowledge to predicting the products of an elimination reaction. In chem 232 you were taught Zaitsev's rule. Zaitsev's Rule states that the more substituted a double bond is the more stable it is. Furthermore, in an elimination reaction, the most stable possible alkene should be the major product.
Let's show an example. Let's take this alkyl bromide and perform an elimination reaction. If we do that, we will get a mixture of products. On the left, we have this terminal alkene, in the middle, we have this disubstituted trans alkene, and on the right we have this disubstituted cys alkene. The terminal alkene is formed from a base deprotonating one of these hydrogen atoms at the end of the molecule. In this case, we are showing an E2 mechanism where the carbon carbon double bond is formed simultaneously as the leaving group is kicked out. The cys and the trans double bond are formed in a similar manner just using hydrogen atoms on the other side of the leaving group shown here in red. According to Zaitsev's rule, the more substituted a double bond is, the more stable it is. Therefore, either the trans or the cys double bond should be the most stable, because they are disubstituted whereas the terminal alkene is only monosubstituted. You know from chem 232 that the trans alkene is more stable than the cys alkene because there are fewer steric interactions between the substituents. Being on opposite sides of the double bond is less crowded than being on the same side of the double bond. Therefore, the trans alkene should be the major product, it should be the one that's produced the most and the terminal alkene should be the minor product, the product that is produced the least, with the cys alkene somewhere in the middle. But on the previous slide, I told you that the stability of the product has no bearing on what the major product should be. Why is it that in organic chemistry we teach you this rule? This is because there is no way for you to look at a compound and say 'yeah, the transition state that leads to this compound will be lower in energy.' Fortunately for us, in most cases for an elimination reaction, the most stable product happens to result from the transition state that is lowest in energy. This is also why using bulky bases can change the product distribution. You know that using tertbutoxide, a bulky base, you will make primary the terminal alkene, even though it is less stable, This is because by using the bulky base, you alter the transition state energies to make the transition state leading to the terminal alkene product, lower in energy than the transition state leading to the other products. Now that we have talked about transition states, let's talk about the E1 mechanism. In this experiment, you will be taking cyclohexanol, shown here on the left, and treating it with phosphoric acid which is a strong acid. Like in the SN1 experiment, you will be protonating this alcohol to turn it into a good leaving group. Similar to what was stated in the mechanism discussion in the SN1 webcast, this protonation step is not part of the E1 mechanism proper. This protonation step is to get the molecule ready to undergo the E1 mechanism but is not part of the E1 mechanism itself. Once you have made this good leaving group, you will then allow it time and energy through the use of heat to form a carbocation, which will then be deprotonated using a base of some kind to form the alkene product. Before we move on, to be clear the E1 mechanism is a 2 step mechanism that consists of the formation of a carbocation as show here at the bottom and the subsequent deprotonation of a hydrogen atom adjacent to the carbocation as show here on the right. Remember, the initial protonation step is not part of the E1 mechanism. The protonation step prepares the molecule to undergo the E1 mechanism which consists of the leaving group leaving to form the carbocation and the subsequent deprotonation to form the new alkene. A simple mechanism and very similar to the SN1 mechanism in the previous experiment. Both reactions go through a carbocation. The reason that we go through an elimination reaction here instead of a substitution reaction is because we do not have a good nucleophile. In the substitution experiment, you produced a chloride ion which is a fantastic nucleophile. In this experiment, you are forming this dihydrogen phosphate ion which is a terrible nucleophile. Because it is a terrible nucleophile, any substitution reaction is slow which gives enough time for something, either the dihydrogen phosphate ion or the solvent or some other base to come along and deprotonate the hydrogen to form the alkene product. One final note about this mechanism before we continue.As you may have noticed, this reaction is catalytic in acid. We start with an acid and then we regenerate that acid over the course of the reaction. Keep this in mind for when you fill out your table of chemicals in your pre-lab notebook. The phosphoric acid will not be the limiting reagent even though it is the reagent that will appear to provide the least amount of product. It is because the acid is not consumed over the course of the reaction. Because the acid gets regenerated, it cannot be the limiting reagent. When you are filling out your table of chemicals, do not set the equivalent of acid to one, even though it may be the reagent with the fewest number of moles. Instead, you should set the number of the equivalent of the alcohol to one, and then set all of your ratios based off of that. This may mean that you have fewer than one equivalent of acid; that's okay because it is catalytic.
The reaction component of this experiment is pretty simple. You will take some cyclohexanol and you will add it to a round bottom flask. You will then add some phosphoric acid to that flask to start the reaction. While the reaction is running, you will simultaneously be fractionally distilling the cyclohexene as it is formed. After you have collected the cyclohexene, you will then dry it using potassium carbonate. To separate your product from the potassium carbonate, you will then perform a simple distillation and then if necessary, dry your product again, and then finally perform something called the Baeyer test to confirm that your collected liquid is in fact your product. The purpose of the Baeyer test is to determine if there is unsaturation, or in other words, alkenes in your final product. How the Baeyer test works is you will take a sample of your compound, hopefully containing an alkene of some kind. You will then add a solution of potassium permanganate, which is purple in color. If an alkene is present, it will react with the potassium permanganate to form a diol. This will have two consequences. First, the solution will go from purple to colorless as the potassium permanganate is used up, the purple color goes away. The second consequence is the formation of solid manganese dioxide, which is a brown solid. What you will do is you will take this potassium permangate solution and add it to a solution of your product and your starting material. If you see a brown solid after testing the solution of your product, you have a positive test for unsaturation, or in other words, you have an alkene in your product. Now sometimes you may not see any brown precipitate form. This is why we add potassium permanganate to both the product and a solution of starting material. What this allows us to do is to compare the number of drops it takes for the solutions to remain purple. If your starting material takes one drop to remain purple, but your product takes ten drops to remain purple, even if you don't see any brown solid, that tells me that your product contains alkene. It took more drops to remain purple, that means there was alkene in there to consume the potassium permanganate you were adding. That brings us to the end of this webcast. To recap, if multiple reaction pathways are possible, and they are irreversible, then the pathway with the lowest energy transition state leads to the major product. The energy of the products themselves is irrelevant. Whichever product is easier to make requires less energy to make will be the major product, even if that product is not the most stable of the possible products. The Baeyer test confirms the presence of alkenes by reacting potassium permanganate with any alkenes present in the molecule. If there are alkenes present in the molecule, then this reaction will produce a brown precipitate and/or a difference in the number of drops needed to maintain the purple color change that results from adding potassium permanganate. If it takes more drops of potassium permangate to keep the solution of your product purple than it does to keep a solution of your starting material purple, then your product likely contains alkenes.
Aldol condensation using unknown aldehydes and ketones. If you are concurrently taking Chem 232 you have not covered the aldol reaction. As a result, this webcast will introduce you to the aldol reaction by discussing what it is and how it works. The aldol reaction is a valuable carbon carbon bond forming reaction. As you know from Chem 232 making carbon carbon bonds is incredibly important in organic synthesis. When an aldol reaction creates a new carbon carbon bond, is connects an sp3 hybridized alpha carbon of a carbonyl, which is on our nucleophile, with a carbonyl carbon on an aldehyde or a ketone that is on our electrophile. An aldol reaction can proceed through two mechanisms. either an acidic mechanism or a basic mechanism. as the name suggests, the mechanism you go through depends on whether you use acid or whether you use base. In this experiment, you'll be using a base and so we will the basic mechanism shortly. An aldol reaction becomes an aldol condensation which is what you'll be performing in this experiment when water or a water equivalent is generated as a byproduct. On the previous slide I told you that the nucleophile in an aldol reaction must contain an sp3 hybridized alpha carbon. Before we discuss why this is necessary, let us look at some structures and first define what an alpha carbon is and then get some practice in identifying what alpha carbons fit this criteria. here are four carbonyl structures. let us look at the structure in the upper left. an alpha carbon is simply a carbon atom that is directly attached to a carbonyl. so this carbon here is an alpha carbon and so is this carbon here on the other side. and if you go through the remaining structures,you can quickly label these as alpha carbons because these are all directly attached to carbonyls. notice how the structure in the upper right has only one alpha carbon. the right side of the carbonyl, being an aldehyde, contains only a hydrogen atom. now let us identify which of these carbons are sp3 hybridized. remember than an sp3 hybridized carbon is one that contains four sigma bonds. if we look at the structure in the upper left, this alpha carbon on the left side of the carbonyl here is not sp3 hybridized. in contrast, if we look at the carbon on the right, we see that there are these implicit hydrogens remember. and so this carbon is in fact sp3 hybridized. and so yes this carbon can be used in an aldol reaction. you don't know how yet, but you will once we talk about the mechanism later in this webcast. if we continue on with these structures, and label them with red Xs for alpha carbons that are not sp3 hybridized, and green check marks if they are, we see that some molecules like the one in the upper left and bottom left have two alpha carbons but only one of those alpha carbons is sp3 hybridized. we see in the upper right that we have a molecule that contains no sp3 hybridized alpha carbons. we see a molecule in the bottom right that has two sp3 hybridized alpha carbons. what does this tell us? well this tells us that this aldehyde here in the upper right cannot be used as a nucleophile in an aldol reaction. it had no sp3 hybridized alpha carbons. these structures on the left, the upper left and the bottom left have one sp3 hybridized alpha carbon therefore these can be used as a nucleophile in an aldol reaction. similarly, see this structure in the bottom right we have two sp3 hybridized alpha carbons therefore this structure as well can be used as a nucleophile in an aldol reaction. okay so we can identify alpha carbons and we can identify alpha carbons that are sp3 hybridized. what makes these particular carbons so important? what makes alpha carbons so important is their proximity to the carbonyl. unlike most other CH bonds, the CH bond of an alpha carbon is particularly acidic. if we add a base of some kind, that base can deprotonate that proton, leading to what we call a carbanion. now in the past when you've added the base to an organic molecule you have never seen this type of reactivity. why is this CH bond different from all of the other CH bonds you have seen in organic chemistry? what makes this bond different is the carbanion we form can be stabilized via resonance like so.
Now there's no longer an electrophile for this enalate to attack. So what is this enalate going to do? What this enalate is going to do is collapse as normal, but instead of attacking an electrophile, it will push this alcohol as a leaving group. So we have hydroxide, a water equivalent, leaving as a byproduct. And we have formed a brand new alkene in our product. And there I go. That is the condensation portion of an aldo-condensation mechanism. Taking our aldo product, we once again deprotinate the alpha carbon to create our enalate, and this enalate collapses to push off our leaving group, the hydroxide, to form an alkene. Now lets talk about this mechanism a little bit. First, many of you may be thinking that hydroxide is a terrible leaving group. How can hydroxide leave without being protinated to form water? There are two primary components to this. The first, we are in basic conditions. There's base around. There is no way to protinate this hydroxide to turn it into a good leaving group. Two, this final product we make on the right, this alkene is what we call conjugated. Remember the conjugated means that we have double bonds adjacent to each other. So we have this c, c double bond and c, o double bond next to each other. Conjugation is a thermodynamically stable arrangement. While it costs a great deal of energy to force this alcohol to leave as a hydroxide ion, we gain all of that back and more by forming this conjugated product. So what we call the driving force, what allows this reaction to happen even though it looks unfavorable is getting lower in energy. It is the thermodynamic stability of this final conjugated product. You may be wondering why is it necessary to go through the enalate to go through the alcohol? Why can't we simply deprotinate that hydrogen atom and eliminate the alcohol in an E2 mechanism. The reason why the E2 mechanism is not applicable is because this direct concerted process has a very high energy barrier. Whereas forming the enalate has a much lower energy barrier. And you know that the lower the energy barrier, which is the energy of the transition state, the faster that process is. So forming the enalate is a much faster process than doing the direct elimination. And that is why we go through the enalate when we eliminate the alcohol to form our product. This particular mechanism that you see here for the elimination of the alcohol is what we call an E1 CB mechanism. We call this an E1 CB mechanism because it is an elimination, where the rate determining step is unimolecular, as you can see here we have only one species present in the elimination. And it goes through the conjugate base of the starting material. Where this enalate is the conjugate base of this ketone acid here. Take home message from this slide. The elimination of the alcohol to form the alkene condensation product proceeds through an E1 CB mechanism. Where a base deprotinates our alpha carbon once again to form again to form our enalate, and our enalate forces off the alcohol as hydroxide ion to make our product. The alcohol is a terrible leaving group. The reason this reaction is able to proceed is one, we are under basic conditions so we cannot protinate the alcohol to make a better leaving group and two, the product we make is thermodynamically very stable. So the energy we pay to eliminate the alcohol is compensated for by the energy we get back from forming our conjugated product. Now that we understand how an aldol-condensation works lets talk about what you will be performing in the lab itself. In the lab itself you will perform what we call a double aldol condensation using an unknown aldehyde and an unknown ketone. Remember earlier in this webcast when we identified how many sp3 hybridized alpha carbons are present in four example carbonyl structures. On that slide we saw how that structure had 2 alpha carbons that fit that criteria. Therefore each alpha carbon can perform an aldol reaction and that is what will happen in this experiment. You will be given one of these four ketones. All four of which have 2 sp3 hybridized alpha carbons. And so each alpha carbon will undergo an aldol reaction. For your electrophiles you will be given one of three possible aldehydes shown here down below.
You'll be given one ketone and one aldehyde, but you will not be told which unknown is your ketone and which unknown is your aldehyde. The first thing you will need to do is using provided infrared spectra, you will identify which of your unknowns is the aldehyde and which of your unknowns is the ketone, which you will then have to justify in your lab notebook. So think about the structures I just showed you. How are the aldehydes different from the ketones? What stretches could you use to differentiate one from the other? Once you have made your identifications and checked with your TA, you will then add the correct volumes of each reagent to an Erlenmeyer flask. You will then start the reaction through the addition of a solution of sodium hydroxide in ethanol. For some unknown combinations, a precipitate will form near immediately. For other combinations, you may need to heat the reaction gently for the reaction to occur. Why would we need to add heat? Remember how in the condensation portion of the reaction, eliminating the alcohol is not a particularly easy process because the alcohol is a terrible leaving group. By adding heat, we provide enough energy for that process to occur. And finally once your product has been made, you will collect it via a filtration. Once you have your product in hand, you will then perform a melting point analysis of your product and compare that melting point to the melting points of the possible products. In the lab handout, you will find a table of the melting points of the possible products. Within that table, you will select 2 or 3 products which are close to the melting point of your product. Make sure your product is dry before performing your analysis or your melting point will be incorrect. To narrow down the identity of your product from your selected choices, you will then perform an NMR analysis. YOu will be provided proton NMR and Carbon 13 NMR to interpret. By matching the NMR data to the structure of one of your choices, you can confirm the identity of your product. Be aware that you will likely see signals in your proton NMR spectrum that possess multiple J values, particularly in the alkene region. Once you have identified your product, you can then backtrack and identify your starting aldehyde and ketone. Ensure that you justify your conclusion for the identity of your unknowns in your lab notebook. To recap this webcast, the aldol reaction is a powerful method to form carbon carbon bonds. The condensation variant of an aldol reaction produces water or water equivalent as a byproduct. The aldol reaction can be effected using an acid or a base. In this experiment, you will be using a base. The base variant proceeds through an enolate intermediate that acts as your nucleophile. The enolate can only be formed from a compound that contains an sp3 hybridized carbon adjacent to a carbonyl. As the enolate is formed from deprotonating one of these alpha carbons, there has to be a hydrogen atom attached to the alpha carbon and finally the electrophile in an aldol reaction must be a carbonyl containing compound, usually an aldehyde or a ketone.