at any frequency alright so we want to allow information at any frequency not just at multiples of the fundamental frequency but that really means that k times omega not is no longer really the right unit to use we don't really want to want to say let's get an integer multiple of some fundamental frequency what we really want to say is that let's let k go to infinity then we have an infinite number of units on the frequency axis that's a little tricky we had an infinite number of frequencies before we had an infinite number of harmonics of the fundamental but now we're going to  this was infinite in the way that the integers are infinite and now we're going to go infinite in the way that the real numbers are infinite so here's the maybe the most interesting trick today is that we're going to let omega naught the fundamental go to zero because we allow information at any frequency and we're going to take k  and turn it from an integer into a real number and specifically we're going to take k times omega naught and call that omega and call that a real number so is that a continuous spectrum of frequencies that's a continuous spectrum of frequencies so omega will be any real number any real-valued frequency pi is a valid frequency so we're going to take this formula and take its limit as capital T goes to infinity with k omega naught  being equal to omega and now that's actually a simple limit to take well we do care the problem is that the limit is zero so we have to get rid of it so we'll have to come back to worry about that here  because now we've taken this formula and multiplied it by T we'll have to remember that that vanished because we do have to remember it but there was no way to keep it we had to get rid of it in fact we'll define  X(omega) as the integral from  minus infinity to infinity of x(t) e to the minus j omega t dt and so looking at this formula right we're getting something like capital X of omega the fourier transform I need to write the title on here X of omega  is something like the limit as  capital T goes to infinity while k times omega naught  is equal to some number omega of capital T  times capital X sub k
There isn't a pair This is kinda cool actually that they're almost perfectly symmetric. In fact in physics they do it with half the frequency in hertz rather than with omega: the frequency in radians per second. And if you go through and do a variable substitution.. let see.. f is equal to omega over two pi. So d omega is equal to two pi f. You plug in a df over here you would get rid of this two pi, you would discover that they are even more symmetric. In electrical engineering we always for some reason do it in terms of omega Maybe because we like writing.. we don't like writing cosine of two pi f t, we like to write cosine of omega t And therefore we have have one (inaudiable) as the scaling factor. There has to be a one over two pi To go from X of omega back to x(t) is one over two pi That's the only scaling factor that occurs The other is the phase And remember where that came from. that came from orthogonality. That came from if you take this X of omega and plug it in here, you will get e to the j t times this omega time e to the j t times this omega subtracted so we get something that looks like this The integral from minus infinity to infinity of e to the j omega 1 minus omega 2 t  integrated dt So that's the integral from minus infinity to infinity of the cosine of omega one minus omega two t plus j times the sine of omega one minus omega two t And this is the principle of orthogonality. That integral is equal to zero if omega one is not omega two Orthagnality says that we can find these x of omegas in this way by just multiplying by e to the minus j omega t and integrating because the integral of cosine and omega 1 times cosine and omega 2 those two things multiplied together to get some other sinusoide  And any sinusoide has a zero average If I integrate over all time I get a zero for my average This infinity causes some problems, if omega one is equal to omega two, what is that integral equal to? The integrand is equal to one What is the integral? Plus infinity! That's a problem that we'll have to come back to in a few minutes. We don't have the tools yet to talk about what it means if omega one is equal to omega two at plus infinity But I want you to be able to recognize already that you have a j omega t in order to get x of t back again. That means that to get x of omega you need e to the minus j omega t because of orthogonality. Because that's the way you ... if you reconstruct this x of t using the sum of cosines and sines you have to invert the phase inorder to find x of omega from that That's because you want this integral to to come out to zero every time omega one is not omega two
[Students Talking] (Lecture starts at 3:05) Alright, welcome back. So, we have an exam tomorrow night in Animal Sciences Lab 150 from 7:00 to 8:15.  The exam covers homeworks 5 through 8, so essentially phasor response, sinusoidal steady state, and Fourier Series. Today, we are actually finishing chapter 7.2. 7.3 we'll still do next Monday. The Fourier Transform property number 16 from the table in the book is Parseval's Theorem. So, I want to talk about that. Actually, that table, remarkably covers quite a lot. It covers everything from chapter 7 through 9 are in that table. I'll introduce a few more properties as I go through today because I want to introduce them for the purpose of giving you more examples of Fourier Transform pairs. In particular, what we're really talking about today is energy. Energy in the Time Domain and the Frequency Domain. And, in particular, when we talk about how energy is distributed across different frequencies, that's this thing called the energy spectrum. And that's exactly the same for the Fourier Transform as the Power Spectrum was for the Fourier Series, where we had a distribution of power across different frequencies. So, first, let's talk about Power signals and Energy Signals  I told you on Monday that signals that have finite total energy are the signals for which you can easily take a Fourier Transform. And that's almost, but not quite true.. We have these two things called Power Signals and Energy Signals, and in chapter 7, all that we're dealing with are the Energy Signals. But in chapter 9, we'll come back and talk about the Power Signals. So, Energy Signals are things that have a finite Total Energy where the Total Energy is defined.  Again, this is the Signal Energy. We don't know if it's a voltage or a current, so we can't whether we're going to multiply by r or divide by r or whatever. So, we just talk about this Signal Energy, which means we integrate total of the signal squared. You square the signal and then you integrate it's total over all time.
So, the examples that we worked with yesterday are the rectangle function and the triangle function and let me write those write those out again for the purpose of defining the triangle function the way it's defined in the textbook. The rectangle function is this thing. And what's the total energy of that signal? The output of W is equal to the integral of minus infinity to infinity of f of t quantity squared integrated dt. And, 1 squared is 1, 0 squared is 0, so this is the integral of 1 from minus 1/2 to 1/2, so that's 1. So that has a finite total energy, so it has finite Fourier Transform, and, in fact, we know that F of omega is equal to the sinc of omega over 2. Then, the other thing that we got to by the end of yesterday was something that was kind of triangle shaped in time. And it had a Fourier Transform that looked like a sinc squared. Let me put limits on those in order to define them using the definitions that are in the book. The book calls this one, let's call it g of t is equal to triangle of t, and if it's equal to triangle of t, that means it's the triangle that hits the x axis at plus and minus one half. And, that has a finite energy. I wrote in my notes that that the total energy of that is a half, but that's not true. Let's take a look at the total energy, W, with integral from minus infinity to infinity of g of t quantity squared dt, which I calculated incorrectly when I was preparing for the class, so I'm not sure off the top of my head what that is. It's not just the area under this curve, it's the area under the square of this curve, right? So, the square that and find this total area. Anybody know what the integral of 1 minus t squared [inaudible] is off the top of their head? Everybody knows how to integrate t squared, right? So, we could do that but I wont because I'll probably make a mistake on the blackboard and then it will look silly. So, instead, let me just write out the Fourier Transform, which I do have in my notes. G of omega is one half of 6 squared of omega over 4. Which means it has a total peak of one half, and it hits 0 every time omega over 4 is a multiple of pi. So, it hits 0 at 4 pi and again at 8 pi and so on. That's the standardized version of that triangle I showed you yesterday. Those are both obviously finite energy signals. In fact, there's something else that we can see: We can look at these and say that (alright, on down to something else that we can cover today) both of those are pretty much low-pass signals in the sense that in the frequency domain, most of the energy here is down at low frequencies. By energy I mean, sort of the square of the Fourier Transform. I haven't really defined that very well yet because I have to actually give you Parseval's Theorem. Rather than giving you Parseval's Theorem with these signals, let me swap those backwards by introducing a new Fourier Transform property. This one is number 6 in the book.
So those are sigmas for talking about things like common thing, our simplest theorem  as you reviewed for the Parsaval's theorem says in the Fourier series, talking about whether it is Fourier transform So in the Fourier Series, we have some symbol that duty, which is equal to the sum of k from negative infinity to infinity of capital s of k times e to the j k omega 0 t, it is periodic with some period of capital T  is 2pi over omega 0. All right? We say this has power spectrum magnitude capital S of k squared  so if you plot power spectrum as a function of k, we will be applying k on horizontal axis and magnitude of s of kth squared on the vertical  axis. And what we mean by that reallly is  that tells you how the power of f of t is distributed across different sine waves that are composed. It says that the total power, capital T, which is average square of the signal, integrating  over 8 complete period. And the magnitude f of t quantity squared, right? Here is the average power signal we take one complete period and integrating total energy of that period, and then divided by time   Parsaval's theorem says that that total power is actually distributed across different frequencies components And make it up, and actually the sum from k equals negative infinity to infinity of magnitude of s of k quantity squared so we can talk about part of power corresponds to DC component. That is f of 0 squared. part of it corresponds to the fundamental frequency, that is capital S of 1 squares the S of -1 squared part of it corresponds to the second harmonic, that is capital S of 2 and capital S of minus 2 and so on we can talk about how power is distributed across frequencies.  Well, for LTI system, the output is equal to  a triple omega times input, right? So we have this formula for phasors. We said that the power is equal to one half of  real part of v times i star, which equal to one half times the real part of magnitude of v squared  over Z. If it is just R, then it is magnitude of V squared over R, right? Where R is real part of Z, which is magnitude of one half times R times magnitude I squared.
That should look kind of familiar to you. What I've shifted in the frequency domain, what would happen if I flipped these two things around? Put this in the time domain and this in the frequency domain? I get the time-shift property, right? So this is yet another example of this duality of the Fourier transform, that the forward transform is almost identical to the inverse transform, and that allows us to say things like -- if I take f(t) and subtract t-naught from it, then it's Fourier transform is e to the minus j omega t-naught, times half of omega. And the only difference between the time-shift property and the flipped-around modulation property is the sign of the sign of the exponential. Normally, in some of the others... In the derivative property for example, the phase is flipped, and there's this extra scalar... But the extra scalar vanishes in this case because... Anyway, because it turns out that way. Because you do the intergrals and the extra scalar goes away.  There's one more thing that we need to know, though, and that is what happens if I multiply by cosine instead of just e to the j omega-sub-c t. But the Fourier transform is linear. If this is true for e to the j omega-sub-c t, then e to the minus j-omega-sub-c t, times f(t), that will have as its transform, well it's a modulation with the negative frequency. What on earth does that mean?  Well it just means a phase shift in a sense.  This is f of omega plus omega-sub-c.  So here's a shift to the right, and there's a shift to the left.  Positive frequency means we shift to the right, negative frequency means we shift to the left. If I take this, and add it together with that, I get the real value modulation property.  Cosine of omega-sub-c t, multiplied by f(t), gives me 1/2 F(omega - omega-sub-c) + 1/2 F(omega + omega-sub-c).  The Fourier transform is linear. If I add together something multiplied by this, with something multiplied by this, then I get the Fourier transform of one of those things plus the Fourier transform we have here. So let me draw some pictures.  Let me suppose in the time domain, s(t) looks something like this.  And let me suppose in the frequency domain, it looks something like this.  So let me suppose that it's relatively low frequency. Speech audio tends to drop off, well you CDs are sampled at 44 kilohertz, so the speech audio has to be limited below 22 kilohertz, in fact there's not much information at all above that [unintelligible]. Which is why you can transmit a pretty good telephone signal using only 8k samples per second. So if this is band-limiting to maybe 3000 hertz or maybe as high as 10000 or 20000 hertz, but much much less than 580000 hertz, then when I modulate it by multiplying it by cosine, x(t) is equal to s(t) times the cosine of some carrier frequency. Like this. What I get in the spectrum is s shifted to the lift plus s shifted to the right.  So I get that s of omega shifted out here to the left and shifted out here to the right.